OPINION OF THE COURT Per Curiam. Respondent Christopher J. Schulze was admitted to the practice of law in the State of New York as Christopher Joel Schulze by the First Judicial Department on February 4, 1985 and, at all times relevant to this proceeding, he has maintained an office for the practice of law within the First Judicial Department. Respondent has not appeared in this proceeding. The Departmental Disciplinary Committee (the Committee) now seeks an order, pursuant to 22 NYCRR 603.4 (e) (1) (i), immediately suspending respondent from the practice of law until further order of this Court, on the grounds of his failure to cooperate with the Committee’s investigation, as well as his failure to register with the Office of Court Administration and pay his biennial registration fee since May 5, 1999, in violation of Judiciary Law § 468-a, which conduct immediately threatens the public interest. The Committee opened its investigation on March 9, 2002 after receiving a complaint alleging that respondent had neglected a personal injury case, which had been dismissed on April 2, 2001, and failed to communicate with the complainant regarding the status of the case. The Committee sent a letter to respondent’s home by first class mail on April 26, 2002 requesting an answer to the complaint within 20 days and, after receiving no response, sent a second letter, dated July 3, 2002, by certified and first class mail. The letters sent by first class mail were not returned and the certified letter was marked “unclaimed.” Respondent, after two telephone messages were left on his answering machine, telephoned the Committee’s investigator on July 31, 2002, informing him that he had not received the Committee’s letter. The investigator, on that same day, forwarded respondent, by facsimile transmission (fax), a copy of the complaint and a request for an answer on or before August 20, 2002. Respondent failed to meet that deadline and by letter dated September 18, 2002, which was sent by first class mail and fax, respondent was advised he had 10 days to submit a written answer. Respondent, two days after the second deadline had also passed, telephoned the investigator and informed him that he was in the State of Florida caring for his ill father. The investigator, on October 8, 2002, left a message on respondent’s home answering machine requesting that respondent call the Committee and, when no response was forthcoming, the investigator left two more messages on October 16, 2002 at respondent’s home as well as on his cell phone. Respondent failed to return any of the messages. The Committee received a second complaint concerning respondent on September 6, 2002, alleging that respondent had neglected the complainant’s divorce action and failed to communicate with her regarding the status of the case, which had been commenced three years earlier. The Committee, by letter dated October 4, 2002, requested that respondent submit an answer to the complaint within 20 days and, when no response was received, the Committee sent a second letter by certified mail, dated November 22, 2002, requesting an answer within 10 days. The letter sent by first class mail was not returned, and the certified letter was returned marked “unclaimed.” The Committee never received a response from respondent concerning this complaint. The Committee received another complaint on November 21, 2002, alleging that respondent had neglected a personal injury case. The complainant maintained that respondent told her that the case was going to trial, but since January 2002, he had failed to communicate with her as to the status of her case. Despite the Committee’s request for an answer to the complaint, respondent has failed to submit a response. The Committee also received a complaint, dated August 26, 2002, in which it is alleged that respondent received a $750 retainer on April 25, 2001 to represent the complainant in a divorce action, but did nothing thereafter, even neglecting to serve papers. Respondent again failed to submit a written answer to this complaint despite two letters from the Committee requesting a response. The Committee thereafter received a letter, dated January 4, 2003, in which it is alleged that respondent neglected a medical malpractice action that had been commenced in 1993, misrepresented the status of the case, including that there had been negotiations with the hospital when none, in fact, had taken place, and fraudulently manufactured a settlement document indicating the case would be settled for $127,500. The complainants further asserted that when their new attorney confronted respondent, he offered to pay the settlement himself, although no payments were ever made. The Committee, by letter dated January 14, 2003, requested an answer to this complaint within 20 days and, although respondent never submitted a written answer, he subsequently acknowledged receiving the complaint. Respondent finally contacted the Committee investigator on January 14, 2003 and left a message explaining that he was in the State of Florida because his mother was suffering from throat cancer, and that he would return to New York on January 20, 2003. Respondent was thereafter served with a subpoena, returnable February 5, 2003, requesting respondent’s personal appearance and written answers to the complaints. Respondent appeared at the Committee offices on the return date, but did not have written answers to the complaints and, when deposed, respondent admitted receiving all of the complaints except for the first one and promised to provide written answers to all of the complaints within 10 days. Respondent did not submit answers by the agreed upon deadline and ignored two telephone messages left at his home requesting that he call the Committee. Respondent then failed to comply with a letter from the Committee dated March 3, 2003, giving respondent seven days to submit responses, and ignored a letter from the Committee, dated March 17, 2003, directing him to appear in person at the Committee offices on March 24, 2003. The Committee, in a letter dated March 28, 2003 which the Committee investigator, in addition to the usual mailings, personally delivered to respondent’s house, gave respondent another chance to personally appear on April 24, 2003. Respondent failed to appear and never submitted written answers to the complaints. In addition to all of the foregoing, respondent last filed his biennial registration statement on May 5, 1999, and is delinquent for the 2001-2002 and 2003-2004 filing periods. We note that Judiciary Law § 468-a (5) provides that an attorney’s noncompliance with the registration requirements “shall constitute conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice and shall be referred to the appropriate appellate division of the supreme court for disciplinary action.” In our view, respondent’s conduct evinces willful noncompliance with a Committee investigation, warranting his immediate suspension (22 NYCRR 603.4 [e] [1] [i]; see also Matter of Hest, 308 AD2d 85 [2003]; Matter of Lawrence, 299 AD2d 101 [2002]). Moreover, respondent’s failure to keep his registration with the Office of Court Administration current, and his failure to pay his biennial fee serve as an independent basis for discipline (see Matter of Hest, supra at 804; Matter of Horoshko, 218 AD2d 339 [1996]). Accordingly, the Committee’s motion, pursuant to 22 NYCRR 603.4 (e) (1) (i), to suspend respondent from the practice of law should be granted; respondent is suspended from the practice of law, effective immediately, until such time as the disciplinary matters before the Committee have been concluded, and until further order of this Court. Nardelli, J.E, Rosenberger, Williams, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ., concur. Respondent suspended effective the date hereof and until further order of the Court.
OPINION OF THE COURT Per Curiam. The Grievance Committee served the respondent with a petition dated April 5, 2000, containing one charge of professional misconduct. Hearings were held before Special Referee Wager on June 18 and June 19, 2002. The charge was ultimately sustained by Special Referee Becker. The petitioner now moves to confirm the Special Referee’s report and to impose such discipline as the Court deems just and proper. In response, the respondent asks that the appropriate sanction be a censure or, at most, a suspension that takes into account the fact that he has already been suspended in excess of three years. The charge is predicated upon the respondent’s convictions of various crimes. The respondent was convicted, after trial, of the following charges: mail fraud, in violation of 18 USC § 1341 (20 counts); wire fraud, in violation of 18 USC § 1343 (2 counts); and conspiracy to commit mail fraud, in violation of 18 USC § 371 (1 count). The respondent was sentenced in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York to concurrent terms of one year and one day incarceration, and was fined $20,000. The judgment of conviction against the respondent is dated January 10, 2000, and an amended judgment of conviction is dated January 25, 2000. Based on the evidence adduced, the Special Referee properly sustained the charge. Accordingly, the motion to confirm the Special Referee’s report is granted. In determining an appropriate measure of discipline to impose, the respondent asks the Court to consider that he has been suspended for more than three years, that he has no prior disciplinary history, and that he enjoys an exemplary professional and personal reputation in the community. According to the respondent, the misconduct underlying the serious crimes of which he has been convicted, i.e. making payments to a middleman to induce expedited handling of insurance claims, is similar to misconduct that has warranted sanctions less severe than disbarments in the past. In view of the fact that the respondent engaged in an ongoing pattern of misconduct as opposed to an isolated instance, he is suspended from the practice of law for an additional five years. Prudenti, EJ., Ritter Santucci, Florio and S. Miller, JJ., concur. Ordered that the motion to confirm the report of the Special Referee is granted; and it is further, Ordered that the respondent, Fredric Grae, is suspended from the practice of law for a period of five years, effective immediately and continuing until the further order of this Court, with leave to the respondent to apply for reinstatement no sooner than six months prior to the expiration of the five-year period upon furnishing satisfactory proof that during that period he (a) refrained from practicing or attempting to practice law, (b) fully complied with this order and with the terms and provisions of the written rules governing the conduct of disbarred, suspended, and resigned attorneys (see 22 NYCRR 691.10), and (c) otherwise properly conducted himself; and it is further, Ordered that pursuant to Judiciary Law § 90, during the period of suspension and until the further order of this Court, the respondent, Fredric Grae, shall continue to desist and refrain from (1) practicing law in any form, either as principal or agent, clerk, or employee of another, (2) appéaring as an attorney, or counselor-at-law before any court, judge, justice, board, commission, or other public authority, (3) giving to another an opinion as to the law or its application or any advice in relation thereto, and (4) holding himself out in any way as an attorney and counselor-at-law.
OPINION OF THE COURT Rose, J. Plaintiffs sustained storm damage to buildings on their respective properties and filed claims for the actual cash value of the damage under homeowner’s insurance policies issued by defendant. When defendant excluded the profit and overhead expenses of a general contractor in calculating the actual cash value, plaintiffs commenced this class action alleging that defendant breached the terms of its policies with them and others similarly situated. Specifically, plaintiffs cited this loss settlement provision of the policies: “We will pay the cost to repair or replace buildings . . . subject to the following: (1) until actual repair or replacement is completed, we will pay the actual cash value of the damage to the buildings, up to the policy limits, not to exceed the replacement cost of the damaged part of the buildings .... Any additional payment is limited to the amount you actually and necessarily spend to repair or replace the damaged buildings . . . .” Plaintiffs then moved for partial summary judgment as to defendant’s liability, class action certification and an order describing class members. Defendant cross-moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that its practice of paying profit and overhead only when a general contractor is actually employed does not constitute a breach of its policies. Supreme Court held that the collateral estoppel effect of a Michigan appellate court’s ruling regarding the same policy language in Salesin v State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. (229 Mich App 346, 367, 581 NW2d 781, 790 [1998], lv denied 459 Mich 934, 615 NW2d 738 [1998]) precluded defendant from contesting whether it can withhold profit and overhead of a general contractor, even if not incurred, in calculating the actual cash value of an insured’s loss. Based on that alone, Supreme Court granted plaintiffs summary judgment on their breach of contract cause of action and certified the proposed class. Defendant now appeals. Initially, we find that collateral estoppel does not apply. The doctrine of collateral estoppel requires “that an issue in the present proceeding be identical to that necessarily decided in a prior proceeding” (Allied Chem. v Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., 72 NY2d 271, 276 [1988], cert denied 488 US 1005 [1989]; see Ryan v New York Tel. Co., 62 NY2d 494, 500 [1984]). The issue presented here, however, is not identical to that resolved in Salesin v State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. (supra). There, defendant initially included general contractor overhead and profit in its estimate of replacement cost and then deducted those items from actual cash value. Applying its interpretation of defendant’s policy language to those facts, the Salesin court concluded that defendant cannot routinely deduct overhead and profit from actual cash value merely because they may not be incurred (229 Mich App at 368-369, 581 NW2d at 791). Here, the issue is whether defendant’s refusal to include overhead and profit in its estimate of replacement cost in the first instance constitutes a breach of the terms of its policies. Moreover, collateral estoppel is inapplicable because interpretation of the policy language presents a pure question of law (see American Home Assur. Co. v International Ins. Co., 90 NY2d 433, 440 [1997]; Avon Dev. Enters. Corp. v Samnick, 286 AD2d 581, 582 [2001]). Also, there are other inconsistent judicial rulings regarding defendant’s policy language (see e.g. Karl v State Farm Fire & Cas. Ins. Co., US Dist Ct, Colo, Mar. 19, 2002, No. 97-WY-2593, slip op at 11-12; Snellen v State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., 675 F Supp 1064, 1068 [US Dist Ct, WD Ky 1987]) that make it unwarranted to give Salesin preclusive effect (see Restatement [Second] of Judgments § 29 [4]; cf. Kaufman v Eli Lilly & Co., 65 NY2d 449, 458-459 [1985]). As a result, Supreme Court erred in summarily holding defendant liable to plaintiffs based solely on the ruling in Sale-sin. Rather, it was incumbent on Supreme Court to first interpret the policy language and then apply it to the facts presented on plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment. Although Supreme Court did not do so, we will—in the interest of judicial economy—interpret the disputed policy provision in light of the persuasive reasoning in Salesin and remit to Supreme Court only the factual issue of whether, under that interpretation, the actual cash values of plaintiffs’ particular losses should have included profit and overhead. Defendant’s policies provide that until the damaged property is actually repaired or replaced, it will pay the actual cash value of the damage not to exceed replacement cost or the policy limits. Actual cash value is payable regardless of whether the property is eventually repaired or replaced. Under New York law, “[t]he determination of actual cash value is made under a broad rule of evidence which allows the trier of fact to consider ‘every fact and circumstance which would logically tend to the formation of a correct estimate of the loss’ ” (Cass v Finger Lakes Coop. Ins. Co., 107 AD2d 904, 905 [1985], quoting McAnarney v Newark Fire Ins. Co., 247 NY 176, 184 [1928]). Since defendant does not dispute that the term “actual cash value” here means replacement cost minus depreciation, the issue becomes whether replacement cost includes a general contractor’s profit and overhead even if not actually incurred. The term “replacement cost” itself is not defined in defendant’s insurance policies. The court in Salesin reasoned that since the replacement cost utilized to determine actual cash value is an estimate of all costs that would likely and reasonably be incurred by the insured in repairing or replacing the damaged property, the expense of a general contractor cannot be deducted from such an estimate unless such services are not likely to be required (see Salesin v State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., 229 Mich App at 367-368, 581 NW2d at 791, citing Gilderman v State Farm Ins. Co., 437 Pa Super 217, 226, 649 A2d 941, 945 [1994], appeal denied 541 Pa 626, 661 A2d 874 [1995]). Applying the same logic, we find that the term “replacement cost”—as opposed to “actual replacement cost”—in defendant’s policies can reasonably be interpreted to include profit and overhead whenever it is reasonably likely that a general contractor will be needed to repair or replace the damage. We find no merit in defendant’s argument that since such an expense may not be actually incurred, it is contingent and should not be included. Like the court in Gilderman v State Farm Ins. Co. (437 Pa Super at 226, 649 A2d at 945), we conclude that a replacement cost estimate is equally hypothetical or contingent as to all materials, labor and contractor services. This reading of “replacement cost” demonstrates that defendant did not meet its burden of showing that its interpretation is the only fair construction of the policy. In our view, the policy language is at best equivocal on the subject. Accordingly, we construe the policies’ terms against defendant (see Westview Assoc. v Guaranty Natl. Ins. Co., 95 NY2d 334, 340 [2000]; Charles F. Evans Co. v Zurich Ins. Co., 95 NY2d 779, 780-781 [2000]; Butler v New York Cent. Mut. Fire Ins. Co., 274 AD2d 924, 925 [2000]; Primavera v Rose & Kiernan, 248 AD2d 842, 843 [1998]; Harrington v Amica Mut. Ins. Co., 223 AD2d 222, 228 [1996], lv denied 89 NY2d 808 [1997]) and hold that it was obligated to include profit and overhead in replacement cost, and thereby in actual cash value, whenever a general contractor would likely be needed. Under this interpretation, plaintiffs can establish their breach of contract claim only upon proof of the likely necessity of a general contractor’s services in the repair or replacement of their damaged property. While plaintiffs’ moving papers contain no allegation or proof of such necessity, a triable issue of fact on this point is nonetheless raised in the record because, in offering to pay contractor profit and overhead if incurred, defendant’s written estimates of plaintiffs’ losses appear to predetermine their need for a general contractor. These loss estimates, which were prepared by defendant’s claims representatives, list the actual cash values proposed to be paid by defendant. Under the heading of “Maximum Additional Amounts Available If Incurred,” the estimates also include percentage amounts for profit and overhead. Other record evidence also suggests that these amounts were included because a general contractor was deemed necessary in the adjustment of plaintiffs’ losses. At several points in his deposition testimony, defendant’s senior claims consultant, Tony Prosperini, stated that it was the responsibility of defendant’s claims representative, in preparing the estimate of an insured’s loss, to determine whether or not a general contractor would be required in repairing or replacing the damaged property. He testified that if a claims representative estimates that a general contractor may be required, then the loss estimate would advise the insured that additional amounts for profit and overhead would be paid if actually incurred. Prosperini also testified that if the need for a general contractor were questionable, then the insured would be advised that such costs would be “considered” at a later time if actually incurred. Defendant’s Operation Guide appears to confirm Prosperini’s testimony and implies that the need for a general contractor was to be determined in preparing the loss estimate. Prosperini’s later affidavit explaining his earlier testimony simply points out an issue of fact as to the implications of defendant’s loss estimates. Given this issue of fact, summary judgment is inappropriate in either party’s favor. If the trier of fact were to find that defendant’s estimates effectively concede that plaintiffs’ losses require a general contractor, defendant then would be liable to these plaintiffs for breach of contract. Also, if such a finding were to be made, then the members of the class proposed by plaintiffs would be properly identified as comprising only those insureds whose policies included substantially similar loss settlement provisions and whose loss estimates offered additional amounts for profit and overhead. Contrary to defendant’s contention, the individualized damages of the resulting class members would not preclude class certification, for the amounts of unpaid profit and overhead could readily be ascertained from each member’s loss estimate (see e.g. Broder v MBNA Corp., 281 AD2d 369, 371 [2001]). If, however, the trier of fact were to find that defendant’s loss estimates do not concede that a general contractor would be reasonably likely, then defendant would be entitled to dismissal of plaintiffs’ breach of contract cause of action inasmuch as they offered no other evidence that their own losses were reasonably likely to require the services of a general contractor. In any event, if loss estimates such as plaintiffs’ fail to establish such a reasonable likelihood, then a class action would not be appropriate because defendant’s liability would require proof by each insured that a general contractor would likely be needed to repair or replace his or her damaged property. This issue’s resolution would be unique for each member, and it would sufficiently predominate over the common questions of fact and law so as to require denial of class certification (see Banks v Carroll & Graf Publs., 267 AD2d 68, 69 [1999]; Mitchell v Barrios-Paoli, 253 AD2d 281, 292 [1999]; Evans v City of Johnstown, 97 AD2d 1, 3 [1983]). Crew III, J.P., Spain, Carpinello and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the orders and judgment are modified, on the law, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as granted plaintiffs’ motion for partial summary judgment as to liability, certified the class and directed the manner and method of service of class notice; said motion granted solely to the extent of declaring the meaning of the loss settlement provision of defendant’s insurance policies and matter remitted to the Supreme Court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision; and, as so modified, affirmed. Supreme Court defined the class members as property owners who (1) have or had homeowner’s or other insurance policies issued by defendant containing loss settlement provisions substantially similar to those in plaintiffs’ policies, (2) sustained covered property damage within a specified time period, (3) made claims for that damage and (4) did not receive payment for general contractor’s overhead and profit.
OPINION OF THE COURT Per Curiam. Respondent Mario A. Vasquez was admitted to the practice of law in the State of New York as Mario Alberto Vasquez by the Second Judicial Department on April 5, 1995 and, at all times relevant to this proceeding, he has practiced law within the First Judicial Department. The Departmental Disciplinary Committee (the Committee) served respondent with a notice and statement of charges on March 11, 2002, alleging that he forged a memorandum, purportedly issued by an assistant to the Mayor of the City of New York, authorizing a salary increase for respondent, which he then forwarded to the city agency for which he served as Director and General Counsel. Respondent was charged with engaging in illegal conduct that adversely reflected on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer, in violation of Code of Professional Responsibility DR 1-102 (a) (3) (22 NYCRR 1200.3); engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation, in violation of DR 1-102 (a) (4); and engaging in conduct which adversely reflected on his fitness as a lawyer, in violation of DR 1-102 (a) (7). Respondent answered the charges on April 1, 2002 and on May 14, 2002, the Committee and respondent entered into a prehearing stipulation which, inter alia, set forth certain undisputed facts. A hearing was held before a Referee on May 14, 2002, and in a report dated July 30, 2002, the Referee made the following findings of fact: respondent began his employment at the Civil Service Commission of the City of New York (the CSC) in 1995 upon his graduation from law school and, after severál promotions, was appointed Director and General Counsel to the agency providing legal advice to the Commissioners. The Commissioners, in 1999 and again in 2001, recommended that respondent receive a pay raise, which was denied on both occasions without explanation. The respondent and members of the Commission, however, believed it was the result of vindictiveness on the part of the newly appointed Budget Director of the Office of Management and Budget (the OMB), arising out of a memorandum respondent forwarded to the OMB questioning the value of an OMB inquiry into the handling of the CSC caseload. Respondent, after a request for reconsideration made to the Mayor’s office by a CSC Commissioner was denied, was eventually given a new job classification at a higher rate of pay, but he never recovered back pay, or lost pension and life insurance increases. Respondent, shortly after the events of September 11, 2001, had taken charge of coordinating his staff and the Commissioners in order to assure a timely return to work, and as a result, was again recommended for a raise along with other city managers. On October 12, 2001, an assistant to the Mayor issued a memorandum stating that all CSC raises had been approved except for respondent. Respondent, on October 15, 2001, explained to the Commissioners that he received a call from a Deputy Mayor indicating his raise had finally been approved, although respondent had placed the call himself, using the name of an employee no longer working for that office. Respondent, on that same day, falsified a prior memorandum of an assistant to the Mayor to make it appear as if he had received a $5,500 salary increase and a lump-sum back payment. The memorandum was then placed by the respondent in the CSC’s in-box so it would be received on or about October 17, 2001. The discrepancy, however, was quickly discovered, the entire series of events having transpired over the course of six days, and upon being informed an investigation would be commenced, respondent confessed to the Commissioners, resigned his position, and cooperated with the Department of Investigation, the District Attorney’s office, and the Committee. Respondent was subsequently charged, on December 18, 2001, with forgery in the second degree (Penal Law § 170.10 [2]), attempted grand larceny in the third degree (Penal Law §§ 110.00, 155.35), official misconduct (Penal Law § 195.00), and tampering with public records in the second degree (Penal Law § 175.20). Respondent subsequently pleaded guilty to the class A misdemeanor of official misconduct (Penal Law § 195.00 [1]), and was sentenced to a conditional discharge of one year, 10 days community service, and fined $1,000. Respondent testified before the Referee that he was driven to commit his transgressions by the actions of the OMB Director, that he must have “snapped,” and that his behavior was aberrational. The testimony of two CSC Commissioners indicated that respondent was a loyal, diligent worker of high integrity. Indeed, one Commissioner went on to aver that respondent is a morally driven individual with a firm, and passionate belief in right and wrong and, despite respondent’s misdeeds, he would trust him with anything. The Referee, as to mitigation, noted respondent’s cooperation with the authorities, his “exemplary” background, his entry into the public sector, despite the fact that the private sector would have been more lucrative, his lack of a disciplinary record, and the fact that he had exhibited “genuine remorse.” The Referee, however, also stated that respondent’s conduct was criminal and although he pleaded guilty to official misconduct, a misdemeanor, there was proof that he had committed acts of forgery in the second degree and attempted grand larceny in the third degree, which are felonies. In conclusion, the Referee adopted the Committee’s suggested sanction and recommended that respondent be suspended for two years. The Hearing Panel confirmed the Referee’s findings with regard to liability, but recommended disaffirming the sanction as “excessively harsh,” the majority of the Panel concluding that a one-year suspension was appropriate, whereas a minority recommended a six-month suspension. The Panel, in mitigation, considered, inter alia, respondent’s exemplary service at the CSC, as well as other organizations, his military service, and his cooperation with the CSC, the District Attorney’s office and the Committee. The Panel, in reaching its conclusion, also opined that respondent “has already suffered greatly as a result of his misconduct and he will continue to do so regardless of what sanction the court ultimately imposes.” The Committee now seeks an order confirming the findings of fact and conclusions of law set forth in the Panel’s report and imposing such discipline as this Court deems fair, just and equitable (22 NYCRR 603.4 [d]). Initially, we find that in view of the stipulated facts and the evidence presented, the Panel’s findings of fact and conclusions of law, which respondent does not contest, should be confirmed. With regard to the appropriate sanction, while we are certainly aware that respondent’s conduct as a public official was serious, we also note that there are substantial mitigating factors, including that respondent’s conduct appears to have been aberrational; his admission of fault; his complete cooperation with investigatory authorities; his sincere expression of shame, humiliation and remorse; his pro bono and public service; his otherwise clean record and good moral character; his considerable character evidence; and the substantial adverse personal and professional consequences of his misconduct. In conclusion, viewing respondent’s misconduct in light of the mitigating factors, we agree with the recommendation of the Panel’s minority that a six-month suspension is appropriate (see Matter of Glotzer, 191 AD2d 112 [1993]). Accordingly, the petition should be granted to the extent of confirming the Panel’s findings of fact and conclusions of law and suspending respondent from the practice of law for a period of six months. Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Saxe, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ., concur. Respondent suspended from the practice of law in the State of New York for a period of six months, effective November 24, 2003.
OPINION OF THE COURT Per Curiam. The Grievance Committee served the respondent with a petition dated April 5, 2000, containing one charge of professional misconduct. Hearings were held before Special Referee Wager on June 18, 2002, and June 19, 2002. The charge was ultimately sustained by Special Referee Becker. The petitioner now moves to confirm the Special Referee’s report and to impose such discipline as the Court deems just and proper. The respondent asks that the appropriate sanction be a censure or, at most, a suspension that takes into account the fact that he has already been suspended in excess of three years. The charge is predicated upon the respondent’s convictions of various crimes. The respondent was convicted, after trial, of the following charges: mail fraud, in violation of 18 USC § 1341 (20 counts); wire fraud, in violation of 18 USC § 1343 (two counts); and conspiracy to commit mail fraud, in violation of 18 USC § 371. On or about January 5, 2000, as amended January 26, 2000, the respondent was sentenced in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York to concurrent terms of one year and one day incarceration, and was fined $20,000. The judgment of conviction against the respondent is dated January 7, 2000. Based on the evidence adduced, the Special Referee properly sustained the charge. Accordingly, the motion to confirm the Special Referee’s report is granted. In determining an appropriate measure of discipline to impose, the respondent asks the Court to consider that he has been suspended for more than three years, that he has no prior disciplinary history, and that he enjoys an exemplary professional and personal reputation in the community. According to the respondent, the misconduct underlying the serious crimes of which he has been convicted, i.e. making payments to a middleman to induce expedited handling of insurance claims, is similar to misconduct which has warranted sanctions less severe than disbarments in the past. In view of the fact that the respondent engaged in an ongoing pattern of such misconduct as opposed to an isolated instance, he is suspended from the practice of law for an additional five years. Prudenti, PJ., Ritter, Santucci, Florio and S. Miller, JJ., concur. Ordered that the petitioner’s motion to confirm the report of the Special Referee is granted; and it is further, Ordered that the respondent, Thomas Rybicki, is suspended from the practice of law for a period of five years, effective immediately and continuing until the further order of this Court, with leave to the respondent to apply for reinstatement no sooner than six months prior to the expiration of the five-year period upon furnishing satisfactory proof that during that period (1) he refrained from practicing or attempting to practice law, (2) he has fully complied with this order and with the terms and provisions of the written rules governing the conduct of disbarred, suspended and resigned attorneys {see 22 NYCRR 691.10), and (3) he has otherwise properly conducted himself; and it is further, Ordered that pursuant to Judiciary Law § 90, during the period of suspension and until the further order of this Court, the respondent, Thomas Rybicki, shall continue to desist and refrain from (1) practicing law in any form, either as principal or agent, clerk, or employee of another, (2) appearing as an attorney or counselor-at-law before any court, judge, justice, board, commission, or other public authority, (3) giving to another an opinion as to the law or its application or any advice in relation thereto, and (4) holding himself out in any way as an attorney and counselor-at-law.
OPINION OF THE COURT Saxe, J. The question presented on this appeal is whether the parties’ contract is ambiguous on the question of how to determine the “Delivery Date” for purposes of defendant’s right to cancel orders. We find the contract to be clear on its face, and therefore affirm the grant of summary judgment to plaintiff. Plaintiff ABS sells aircraft noise reduction equipment known as “hushkits,” which are designed to bring DC-9 aircraft into compliance with federal noise pollution regulations. Defendant AirTran Airways, Inc., successor in interest to Valujet Airlines, Inc., is a commercial passenger airline. Plaintiff ABS and defendant AirTran Airways’s predecessor in interest entered into agreements whereby defendant would purchase a total of 44 hushkits. At issue in this appeal are hushkit order numbers 38 through 41, or, more specifically, the cancellation of those orders. The Agreement contains a “Delivery Schedule” of “Delivery Dates” for the hushkits; the set delivery dates for the four hush-kits at issue were June 15, 1999, July 15, 1999, August 15, 1999 and September 15, 1999. Section 11.2 of the Agreement, titled “Cancellation,” permits cancellation on the following terms: “Purchaser shall be entitled to cancel all or any portion of this Agreement with respect to one or more Hushkits by notifying ABS of such cancellation and paying ABS the applicable cancellation fee in accordance with and as set forth in Exhibit 8 hereto [see below]. Upon receipt by ABS of such notice and cancellation fee, this Agreement shall terminate with respect to the Hushkits identified by Purchaser in its notice to ABS, with neither party having any further rights or obligations under this Agreement with respect thereto. Purchaser shall pay a cancellation fee to ABS in the amount, and on the terms, set forth in Exhibit 8 hereto and such cancellation shall only become effective upon the receipt by ABS of such cancellation fee.” The cancellation fees payable by the purchaser in order to cancel an order are set forth in exhibit 8 to the Agreement: $50,000 where the order is canceled 61 or more days prior to the delivery date, $100,000 where the order is canceled 31 to 60 days prior to the delivery date, and $150,000 where the order is canceled 30 or less days prior to the delivery date. In a letter postmarked July 15, 1999 and received by ABS on July 19, 1999, ABS was notified in writing of the airline’s decision to cancel kits 38 through 44. The notice did not include payment of the cancellation fee, although AirTran indicated its intention to pay $400,000 in cancellation fees, according to the following formula: $100,000 for kit 38, and $50,000 each for kits 39 through 44. However, because the set delivery dates for hushkits 38 through 41 were June 15, 1999, July 15, 1999, August 15, 1999 and September 15, 1999, respectively, ABS rejected this calculation of the fee due. Its position was that hushkits 38 and 39 could no longer be cancelled because their scheduled delivery dates were passed, and that in any event a notice of cancellation was only effective if accompanied by the cancellation fee. Therefore, when the $400,000 cancellation fee was finally sent to ABS by AirTran on September 24, 1999, it was applied by ABS to kits 42 through 44, because by the time it was received, the contract’s set delivery dates for kits 40 and 41, as well as 38 and 39, had already passed. ABS sued for the full contract price of hushkits 38 through 41, at a cost of $1,341,049 each, along with the price of certain spare parts that were delivered but never paid for. In its underlying motion for summary judgment, ABS claimed entitlement as a matter of law to lost profits amounting to $4,470,734.40, plus the price of the spare parts, reiterating its position that the cancellations of kits 38 through 41 were not effective. In opposition, AirTran asserted that it had an absolute right to cancel orders pursuant to section 11.2 of the Agreement, with the cancellation fee for each order not more than $150,000 per kit. It contended that the term “Delivery Date” as used in the Agreement meant the actual date for delivery, not the dates contained in exhibit 6, which were merely estimates, and that therefore it had not cancelled these kits after the “Delivery Dates” because no such dates had been in place; the exhibit 6 schedule had “lapsed,” it maintained. The motion court rejected AirTran’s contentions, granting summary judgment on the breach of contract claim as to liability, and referred the issue of damages to a referee. The court concluded that movant had set forth a prima facie case that Air-Tran had failed to effectively cancel kits 38 through 41 because AirTran had not paid a cancellation fee until September 24, 1999, which was after the “Delivery Dates” for those kits had passed. The court rejected AirTran’s argument that the cancellations were not untimely because no firm delivery dates had been set and ruled that, even assuming that the parties had deviated from the scheduled “Delivery Dates” in the past, Air-Tran had not demonstrated that the parties intended to abandon the schedule of “Delivery Dates” for kits 38 through 41. It noted that section 10.1 of the Agreement provided that in the event of a default by AirTran, ABS was entitled to be compensated for the loss of its anticipated profits. Finally, the court stated that, based on the Agreement, ABS is entitled to be compensated for “the value of materials that it purchased and services that it had performed, as well as the loss of its anticipated profits.” Defendants moved for renewal so that the court could consider the testimony of AirTran’s former chief financial officer, whose deposition was taken after the motion for summary judgment was submitted. According to AirTran, the former officer’s testimony demonstrated that material issues of fact exist as to whether the contractual “Delivery Dates” for the hushkits were binding on the parties and, in turn, whether AirTran effectively cancelled orders 38 through 41. The court denied the motion, noting that the deposition testimony was not really “new” evidence, given that this former officer had submitted an affidavit in opposition to the summary judgment motion. In any event, the court concluded, the deposition testimony did not set forth any additional information that would demonstrate that material factual issues remain. Discussion AirTran contends that the delivery schedule in the contract was merely an estimate, because delivery was subject to deferral if AirTran failed to deliver its modification parts to ABS’s vendors at. least 60 days before a scheduled delivery date, as contemplated in section 1.13 of the Agreement. Therefore, it reasons, the “Delivery Dates” listed in exhibit 6 were advisory only, and it had the right to cancel any order up until the actual delivery date. We are unable to accept this reasoning. It cannot be denied that the contract, and the parties’ course of conduct, recognizes that for purposes of fulfilling the hushkit orders, the parties understood the mutable nature of the stated delivery dates, which would likely alter based upon the parties’ preceding conduct. However, it does not follow that the stated delivery dates may be treated as mere estimates for purposes of cancellation of those orders. For purposes of cancellation of orders, or more specifically, for the purpose of determining the fee due for cancellation, there is no way for the parties to calculate the correct cancellation fee unless they use the stated delivery dates, because the applicable fee is calculated based upon the number of days prior to the delivery date that the cancellation took effect. If the buyer seeks to cancel an order 10 days before a set delivery date, under the contract it must pay the contract’s $150,000 fee. But, if it is permitted to assert that the realistic delivery date would have been three months later, thereby reducing the contract’s cancellation fee to $50,000, the contract’s entire cancellation fee framework is virtually negated. Indeed, since there will not be a new delivery date if an order is cancelled, there is no other viable way to establish how far in advance of the delivery date the cancellation took place. Ultimately, unless we accept the exact terms of the contract’s cancellation provisions as written, including its use of the defined “Delivery Dates” for this purpose, the whole complicated contract provision for canceling orders becomes virtually nullified. Because we must adopt the interpretation of a contract which gives effect to all its provisions (see PNC Capital Recovery v Mechanical Parking Sys., 283 AD2d 268 [2001], lv dismissed 96 NY2d 937 [2001]), we conclude that the cancellation provision of the contract unambiguously and clearly permits cancellation only prior to the “Delivery Dates” as they are stated in the Agreement, and only upon the payment of the set fee. To interpret the Agreement as AirTran suggests would give it complete, unilateral control over its own obligations under the contract; its obligation to purchase the ordered hushkits would never come into existence as long as it never delivered its modification parts. As the contract reads, however, when Air-Tran failed to meet the deadlines for its own performance of its preliminary obligations, the only thing deferred was ABS’s obligation to physically deliver the hushkits. Indeed, the parties’ prior contract had included a provision permitting AirTran to request in writing, on or before the first day of the month preceding the month in which a hushkit was scheduled for delivery, the deferral of up to 60 days of the “Delivery Date”; but that provision was deleted from the contract covering the orders in question. When the terms of a contract are clear and unambiguous, the intent of the parties must be found within the four corners of the document, and the court must enforce it without recourse to parol evidence (see Unisys Corp. v Hercules, Inc., 224 AD2d 365 [1996]; Weisberger v Goldstein, 242 AD2d 622 [1997]). This rule is applicable here: the parties’ intent and purpose regarding their rights and obligations may be determined solely through interpretation of the Agreement itself, making summary determination appropriate. Moreover, there is no dispute as to the sequence of events regarding AirTran’s orders 38 through 41 which would preclude summary judgment (see Garcia v J.C. Duggan, Inc., 180 AD2d 579 [1992]). AirTran failed to cancel orders 38 through 41 in the manner provided for in the Agreement, and it is therefore now in default with respect to those orders. It is therefore liable under section 10.1 of the Agreement, which contains specific provision for the calculation of ABS’s damages as the loss of its anticipated profits plus the value of materials that it purchased and services it performed. Far from working a forfeiture, as Air-Tran argues, this contractually defined remedy is the most logical approach to calculating ABS’s damages (see Neri v Retail Mar. Corp., 30 NY2d 393 [1972]; UCC 2-708 [2]). Finally, the motion court correctly held that the deposition testimony of its former chief financial officer did not provide proper grounds for renewal, since on the original motion Air-Tran had provided an affidavit by that same individual, containing the same basic assertions (see Foley v Roche, 68 AD2d 558, 567-568 [1979]). Furthermore, because it is offered as demonstrating the parties’ intent in regard to the inclusion of the contract’s deferral provision, the newly offered evidence would be of value only in the event the court found that the contract’s intent could not be gleaned from its terms, and required the admission of parol evidence. Accordingly, the order of the Supreme Court, New York County (Herman Cahn, J.), entered October 16, 2002, which granted plaintiffs motion for summary judgment as to liability in this action for breach of contract, and order, same court and Justice, entered February 28, 2003, which denied defendants’ motion for renewal of the prior motion, should be affirmed, without costs. Buckley, EJ., Mazzarelli, Williams and Marlow, JJ., concur. Order, Supreme Court, New York County, entered October 16, 2002, and order, same court, entered February 28, 2003, affirmed, without costs. The Agreement defines the term “Delivery Date” as the date specified in exhibit 6 for each hushkit.
OPINION OF THE COURT Per Curiam. Respondent George R. Osborne was admitted to the practice of law in the State of New York by the Second Judicial Department on June 22, 1960, under the name George Richard Osborne, Jr. At all times relevant to this proceeding, he has maintained an office for the practice of law within the First Department. In April 2001, the Departmental Disciplinary Committee initiated a proceeding against respondent, pursuant to the doctrine of collateral estoppel, based on the findings made in three unrelated civil cases in which monetary sanctions were imposed on him for pretrial misconduct that exhibited disdain for the court. In the first case, Douglas v Victor Capital Group (1997 WL 716912, 1997 US Dist LEXIS 18115 [SD NY, Nov. 17, 1997, 96 Civ 6557]), United States Magistrate Judge Andrew Peck issued an opinion “necessitated by the inability of counsel for plaintiff, George R. Osborne, to follow court scheduling orders” (1997 WL at *1, 1997 US Dist LEXIS at *1). Magistrate Judge Peck sanctioned respondent $250 for his “extremely cavalier” attitude toward deadlines throughout the case, adding that this was not the first time respondent had had “this problem” and referring to a 1991 case in which respondent was publicly censured for failing to file briefs on time (Heyman v Massler, 1991 WL 125259, *1, 1991 US Dist LEXIS 8721, *3 [SD NY, June 28, 1991, 84 Civ 888] [Senior Judge Bernard Newman, US Court of International Trade, sitting as US District Judge by designation]). In the second case, Colton, Hartnick, Yamin & Sheresky v Feinberg (Index No. 2948/91 [Sup Ct, NY County]), Justice Lorraine Miller imposed a sanction of $2,500 against respondent and his client on November 17, 1997, after four unexcused absences by respondent, and imposed a second sanction on them on February 17, 1998, in the amount of $5,000, for “flouting this court’s several orders,” “obstructing the resolution of the litigation and treating the court’s processes with manifest contempt,” and “engaging] in a deliberate campaign of obfuscation and utter disrespect for court orders, professional responsibility, and civilized behavior.” This Court affirmed Justice Miller’s February 1998 order, which struck respondent’s client’s pleadings for his repeated and deliberate disobedience of court orders pertaining to disclosure (Colton, Hartnick, Yamin & Sheresky v Feinberg, 261 AD2d 238, 239 [1999]). In the third case, SS&J Morris v I. Appel Corp. (2000 WL 1028680, 2000 US Dist LEXIS 10381 [SD NY, July 26, 2000, 97 Civ 6938, 97 Civ 8230]), United States Magistrate Judge Douglas Eaton found that respondent and his client had invoked the federal rule permitting a party to instruct a witness not to answer (Fed Rules Civ Pro rule 30 [d] [3] [now (4)]) in bad faith (2000 WL at *2, 2000 US Dist LEXIS at *4) and that “[t]hrough their speeches, interruptions, refusals to answer and instructions not to answer, they caused a delay of almost two months . . . and caused the entire deposition to consume . . . about twice as much time as it should have [and] to be much nastier than it should have been” (2000 WL at *6, 2000 US Dist LEXIS at *16). Magistrate Judge Eaton imposed sanctions against respondent and his client in the amount of $29,692.37 (SS&J Morris v I. Appel Corp., 2000 WL 1576972, 2000 US Dist LEXIS 15389 [SD NY, Oct. 23, 2000, 97 Civ 6938, 97 Civ 8230]). This Court granted the Committee’s motion (M-2229) seeking a finding that respondent had committed professional misconduct and appointing a Referee to conduct a hearing to consider any evidence in mitigation or aggravation and to recommend an appropriate sanction. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Referee found that, while respondent’s conduct in any one of the three cases discussed above arguably did not rise to a level at which professional discipline might have been appropriate, “it is the pattern of conduct which is found to amount to unprofessional conduct, and while there are some circumstances which serve to soften the image, there remains an unmistakable picture of conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice, reflecting adversely on [respondent’s] ability as a lawyer and harmful to his client” (emphasis in report). The Referee found that respondent’s attempt at mitigation “served rather to reinforce the conclusion of the Appellate Division, that he has adopted a course of conduct inimical to the administration of justice and the image of our profession.” Respondent “continually ignored the ruling that he could not reargue the issues already determined adversely to him by the Appellate Division” and regularly offered testimony that there was no misconduct or that the factual predicates for the findings of misconduct were false. The Referee also noted that respondent’s manner of complying with the schedule for exchanging posthearing memoranda with the Committee was “yet another example of failure to meet deadlines.” On the other hand, the Referee cited “extensive periods of practice without a disciplinary record in a career devoted to adv'ersarial litigation where antagonizing relationships are difficult to avoid.” He credited respondent with a “trouble free” record since 1974, when respondent was suspended for three years after he was found to have violated the prohibition against private practice while employed as Chief Counsel of the Coordinating Committee on Discipline* the Departmental Disciplinary Committee’s predecessor (Matter of Osborne, 45 AD2d 113 [1974], appeal dismissed 36 NY2d 873 [1975]). In imposing the suspension, this Court stated that “we would, were it not for the findings, and recommendation of the Referee, and certain mitigating factors disclosed by the record, disbar the respondent” (at 115). The Referee commented that it was “arguably significant that in [the 1974] matter the respondent in his defense, as described by the court in its opinion, showed a readiness to test the outer limits of rules governing his conduct.” However, the Referee pointed out that there had been no claim of evidence of moral turpitude in any of the matters he had reviewed in the instant proceeding and he recommended, instead of the three-year suspension recommended by the Committee, a suspension of one year. A Hearing Panel subsequently recommended modifying the Referee’s proposed sanction to provide for a three-month suspension, observing that the courts that imposed sanctions on respondent declined to refer his conduct for further disciplinary action and that respondent is a 70-year-old solo practitioner with one disciplinary incident, which occurred 28 years ago, in 43 years of practice. Noting the conduct on which the Referee commented, which mirrored the conduct for which respondent was sanctioned, and respondent’s demeanor before the Panel, the Panel recommended the three-month suspension so that respondent would not be precluded from returning to the practice of law. The Departmental Disciplinary Committee now seeks an order, pursuant to 22 NYCRR 605.15 (e), disaffirming in part the Hearing Panel’s report, confirming the findings of fact and conclusions of law set forth in the Referee’s report, and imposing a one-year suspension as recommended by the Referee. Respondent seeks to disaffirm the Panel’s report and argues that no suspension is warranted. The record amply supports the Referee’s findings of fact and conclusions of law. That respondent engaged in a “pattern” of misconduct, for example, is demonstrated in the findings of the three different courts in the aforementioned cases. Also demonstrated is that court warnings, opportunities to comply and even monetary sanctions did not deter him from engaging in such misconduct. We therefore agree that respondent should be suspended from the practice of law. However, a one-year suspension could mean the end of respondent’s career, which we do not believe is warranted, while a three-month suspension is too lenient in view of the absence of mitigation, respondent’s stubborn attempts at relitigation in the guise of mitigation, and his conduct during this proceeding, which, as the Panel observed, “mirrored the conduct for which he was sanctioned.” We find that a suspension of six months is the appropriate sanction. Accordingly, the Committee’s motion for an order confirming the findings of fact and conclusions of law set forth in the Referee’s report should be granted. The Hearing Panel’s recommendation that this Court impose a one-year suspension should be disaffirmed and respondent should be suspended from the practice of law for a period of six months and until the further order of this Court. Buckley, P.J., Nardelli, Rosenberger, Ellerin and Williams, JJ., concur. Respondent suspended from the practice of law in the State of New York for a period of six months, effective November 24, 2003.
OPINION OF THE COURT Per Curiam. Hugh F. Brammer has submitted an affidavit of resignation dated June 6, 2003. Mr. Brammer avers that his resignation is voluntary, free from coercion and duress, and made, after review with counsel, with a full awareness of the implications of its submission. Mr. Brammer is aware that he is the subject of multiple complaints of professional misconduct and the pending disciplinary proceeding. These complaints concern, inter alia, Mr. Brammer’s assault upon his wife and subsequent conviction of the crime of assault in the third degree, a class A misdemeanor, as well as his preparation of a false attorney identification card. Mr. Brammer acknowledges that if charges were predicated upon these allegations, he would be unable to successfully defend himself. He is aware that any order permitting him to resign could require him to make monetary restitution to any persons whose money or property was misappropriated or misapplied or to reimburse the Lawyers’ Fund for Client Protection for same. He is aware that any order issued pursuant to Judiciary Law § 90 (6-a) could be entered as a civil judgment against him and he specifically waives the opportunity afforded him by Judiciary Law § 90 (6-a) (f) to be heard in opposition thereto. The petitioner urges acceptance of the proffered resignation. Inasmuch as Mr. Brammer’s resignation conforms with all appropriate Court rules, it is accepted, and, effective immediately, Hugh F. Brammer is disbarred and his name is stricken from the roll of attorneys and counselors-at-law. Prudenti, PJ., Ritter, Santucci, Altman and H. Miller, JJ., concur. Ordered that the resignation of Hugh F. Brammer is accepted and directed to be filed; and it is further, Ordered that pursuant to Judiciary Law § 90, effective immediately, Hugh F. Brammer is disbarred, and his name is stricken from the roll of attorneys and counselors-at-law; and it is further, Ordered that Hugh F. Brammer shall continue to comply with the rules of this Court governing the conduct of disbarred, suspended, and resigned attorneys (see 22 NYCRR 691.10); and it is further, Ordered that pursuant to Judiciary Law § 90, effective immediately, Hugh F. Brammer is commanded to continue to desist and refrain from (1) practicing law in any form, either as principal or as agent, clerk, or employee of another, (2) appearing as an attorney or counselor-at-law before any court, judge, justice, board, commission, or other public authority, (3) giving to another an opinion as to the law or its application or any advice in relation thereto, and (4) holding himself out in any way as an attorney and counselor-at-law.
OPINION OF THE COURT Ellerin, J. Parties to an action for dissolution of a marriage are entitled to anticipate the final resolution of all issues relating to the marriage relationship without fragmentation and are obligated to litigate all issues affecting the marriage in that action (see Boronow v Boronow, 71 NY2d 284, 290-291 [1988]). Thus, important issues ancillary to the dissolution of the marriage, such as title to marital property, must be raised in the divorce proceeding, and if they could have been, but were not, raised they may not thereafter be raised in a separate action (id. at 290). While strong public policy considerations favor finality in the resolution of disputes of all kinds to assure that parties will not be vexed by further litigation (see Matter of Reilly v Reid, 45 NY2d 24, 28 [1978]), nowhere is the “salutary doctrine against prolonging strife” (Reed v Allen, 286 US 191, 199 [1932]) more critical than in divorce proceedings. “[A] continuation of the relationship and of the conflict among parties to a matrimonial litigation would be particularly perverse” (Boronow, supra at 291). This appeal presents such a perverse continuation of the conflict between parties to a matrimonial litigation. The essential facts are not disputed. Petitioner Amy Clayton and respondent Clifford Benjamin were married from 1986 until 2000, when they were divorced in Connecticut. In the divorce proceeding, they agreed to the distribution of certain assets, including the joint brokerage account with right of survivorship that they had opened at Merrill Lynch, for which Clayton worked as a broker. The Connecticut court made various findings of fact, as reflected in the judgment of divorce, which attributed the greater share of responsibility for the breakdown of the marriage to Clayton and noted that, while Clayton earned more than Benjamin during the marriage, the net effect of her contributions to the couple’s purchase of a condominium and their expenses was diminished by margin costs and losses on her stock trades. The court also found that throughout the marriage Clayton controlled most of the couple’s finances, made virtually all the investment decisions, intermingled their jointly owned securities and funds from their stock transactions with her own personal stock and funds held in her own bank accounts and transferred some $40,000 of the couple’s assets, without consideration, to her parents. In response to these findings, the court ordered, inter alia, the following assignments of property: Clayton was ordered to pay Benjamin $80,000 realized from the approximately 2,800 shares of Merrill Lynch common stock that she owned individually (and of which she would retain ownership) and to transfer 50% of her Merrill Lynch pension and retirement benefits to him and 57% of her interest in an IRA to an IRA designated by him. Sixteen months after the judgment of divorce was issued, Benjamin filed a statement of claim with the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) against Clayton and Merrill Lynch, purportedly pursuant to the arbitration clause in his customer agreement and to NASD rules, seeking damages resulting from Clayton’s alleged material misrepresentations and omissions, unsuitable trading, breach of contract, misuse of funds and excessive trading. Benjamin claimed that Clayton had misrepresented to him that she would invest his funds in a manner consistent with his stated investment objective and that, once made, those investments were performing well. He claimed that Clayton did not invest his funds in a manner consistent with his objective; that she siphoned funds out of their joint account and into her personal account, the existence of which she kept secret from him; that she removed his funds from their joint account for her own purposes and without his permission; and that she failed to open an IRA for him and instead deposited the funds he had given her for that purpose into their joint account, in which she then engaged in unsuitable and excessive trading. Benjamin sought to hold Merrill Lynch secondarily liable for the alleged resulting losses. In September 2002, Clayton and Merrill Lynch commenced this proceeding to stay the arbitration on the ground, inter alia, that Benjamin improperly was seeking to relitigate issues that were and/or should have been raised in the divorce proceeding. Benjamin moved to dismiss the petition, asserting that, rather than seeking to relitigate issues, he had deliberately chosen to present these claims for the first time in arbitration. The court permanently stayed the arbitration, holding that Benjamin’s claim was barred by the doctrine of res judicata because the judgment of divorce was conclusive as to any property questions actually litigated and any property questions that could have been litigated in the matrimonial action, including the alleged waste of joint marital assets. Benjamin contends that a court may not grant a stay of pending arbitration on res judicata grounds, because the CPLR limits a court’s role in an application for such a stay to determining whether a valid agreement to arbitrate was made or was complied with and whether the claim sought to be arbitrated is barred by an applicable statute of limitations (CPLR 7503 [b]). He also argues that, in any event, on the instant record neither the divorce proceeding nor the judgment of divorce is sufficient to invoke the doctrine of res judicata. In support of his argument that a court may not grant a stay of arbitration on res judicata grounds, Benjamin relies on cases holding that the preclusive effect of an arbitration award on subsequent arbitration proceedings is a matter to be determined by the arbitrator (see e.g. Matter of City School Dist. of City of Tonawanda v Tonawanda Educ. Assn., 63 NY2d 846 [1984]; Matter of Port Auth. of N.Y. & N.J. v Office of Contract Arbitrator, 254 AD2d 194 [1998]). However, neither the Court of Appeals nor this Court has addressed the question of whether courts or arbitrators should determine the preclusive effect of a court’s judgment on a subsequent arbitration (but see Matter of Reed v Cohen, 120 AD2d 598 [2d Dept 1986], lv denied 68 NY2d 608 [1986] [holding that Special Term did not err in permanently staying, on res judicata grounds, arbitration of claims arising from same series of transactions as were settled after litigation in Surrogate’s Court]; see also Matter of Carp [Van Tassel], 234 AD2d 715 [3d Dept 1996], lv denied 89 NY2d 813 [1997] [holding that Supreme Court properly vacated arbitration award, according res judicata effect to prior small claims court judgment]). For the following reasons, we hold that the preclusive effect of a court’s judgment on a subsequent arbitration is a matter to be determined by the court. As a general rule, arbitration is a favored method of dispute resolution (see e.g. Matter of Smith Barney Shearson v Sacharow, 91 NY2d 39, 49 [1997]). Under CPLR article 75, which creates “a hospitable procedural environment that is intended to encourage arbitration,” the courts play the “gatekeeping” role of deciding certain “threshold” issues before compelling or staying arbitration (CPLR 7503). The merits of a controversy are reserved for the arbitrator (CPLR 7501), whose factual findings, interpretation of the arbitration agreement and judgment concerning remedies are binding on the court (Matter of New York State Correctional Officers & Police Benevolent Assn. v State of New York, 94 NY2d 321, 326 [1999]). Unless the arbitration agreement provides otherwise, the arbitrator is not bound by principles of substantive law or rules of evidence (Matter of Silverman [Benmor Coats], 61 NY2d 299, 308 [1984]). The arbitrator “may do justice as he sees it, applying his own sense of law and equity to the facts as he finds them to be” (id.). Even where the arbitrator makes errors of law or fact, the court may not undertake to conform the award to its sense of justice (Matter of New York State Correctional Officers, supra). Only where an award is totally irrational or exceeds a specifically enumerated limitation on the arbitrator’s power may it be vacated by the court (Matter of Silverman, supra at 308). The courts’ gatekeeping role is delineated in CPLR 7503, which sets forth three specific issues a court must decide, if called upon to do so, before compelling or staying arbitration. These threshold issues are whether a valid agreement was made, whether the agreement was complied with, and whether the claim sought to be arbitrated is barred by a statute of limitations. While not specifically enumerated in the statute, there is another threshold issue which is reserved for decision by the court—that is, whether public policy precludes arbitration of the subject matter of a particular dispute (see Alexander, supra at 287; Matter of City of New York v Uniformed Fire Officers Assn., 95 NY2d 273, 281 [2000] [“We have recognized limited instances where arbitration is prohibited on public policy grounds alone”]). It is because of the strong deference given to arbitration that “it has become increasingly important to identify at the threshold those subjects which should not be arbitrated—those exceptions which have been recognized ‘as so interlaced with strong public policy considerations that they have been placed beyond the reach of the arbitrators’ discretion’ ” (Glauber v Glauber, 192 AD2d 94, 97 [1993], quoting Matter of Associated Teachers of Huntington v Board of Educ., 33 NY2d 229, 235 [1973]). In matters of child custody and visitation, for instance, where public policy makes paramount the best interests of the child, the Domestic Relations Law places the responsibility on the courts for making orders on that basis, irrespective of any bargain the parents have struck (id.). Since an agreement to arbitrate the issue of custody is tantamount to an agreement to give custody, enforcing such an arbitration agreement would be contrary to public policy (id. at 98). Another matter “intertwined with overriding public policy considerations” and therefore beyond the reach of arbitrators’ discretion is the disqualification of an attorney from representing a client (see Bidermann Indus. Licensing v Avmar N.V., 173 AD2d 401, 402 [1991]). Like matters of attorney discipline, which have been held beyond the jurisdiction of arbitrators, issues of attorney disqualification involve interpretation and application of the Code of Professional Responsibility and Disciplinary Rules and cannot be left to the determination of arbitrators selected by the parties themselves for expertise in the particular industries in which they are engaged (id.). Yet a third area of law that represents a public policy of the “first magnitude” and is therefore beyond the reach of arbitrators’ discretion is the enforcement of state antitrust law (see Matter of Aimcee Wholesale Corp. [Tomar Prods.], 21 NY2d 621, 625 [1968]). Since courts may not set aside arbitration awards for misapplication of the law, they may be called upon to enforce arbitration awards that are “directly at variance with statutory law and judicial decision interpreting that law” (at 627) and cannot “abdicate their control” over such an important policy (id. at 630). We find that determining the preclusive effect of court judgments on subsequent arbitrations is another subject “so interlaced with strong public policy considerations that [it must be] placed beyond the reach of the arbitrators’ discretion’ ” (Matter of Associated Teachers v Board of Educ., 33 NY2d 229, 235 [1973], quoted in Glauber, 192 AD2d at 97). The doctrine of res judicata is “the law’s recognition of the fact that it is to the interest of the State that there should be an end to litigation” (Israel v Wood Dolson Co., 1 NY2d 116, 118 [1956]). In the interest of protecting their judgments, “[c]ourts should not have to stand by while parties re-assert claims that have already been resolved” (Kelly v Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., 985 F2d 1067, 1069 [1993], cert denied 510 US 1011 [1993]). “No matter what, courts have the power to defend their judgments as res judicata, including the power to enjoin or stay subsequent arbitrations” (In re Y & A Group Sec. Litig., 38 F3d 380, 382 [1994], reh denied sub nom. Dean Witter Reynolds v Valk, 1994 US App LEXIS 36524 [8th Cir, Oct. 21, 1994]). It is one thing for an arbitrator to make a determination of the preclusive effect of an arbitration award on a subsequent arbitration arising from the same arbitration agreement (see e.g. Matter of City School Dist. of City of Tonawanda v Tonawanda Educ. Assn., 63 NY2d 846 [1984]; Matter of Port Auth. of N.Y. & N.J. v Office of Contract Arbitrator, 254 AD2d 194 [1998]). It is something quite different for an arbitrator to make a determination of the preclusive effect of a court’s judgment on a subsequent arbitration. That involves the interpretation of statutory law and judicial decisions in areas likely to be both outside the scope of the arbitration and beyond the arbitrator’s competence. The undesirability of such an exercise is particularly apparent in the instant appeal, where an arbitrator selected for expertise in securities could be making a determination of the preclusive effect of a divorce judgment on a securities arbitration. Where a court’s judgment is at issue, policy considerations mandate that it be left to the court in the first instance to decide the preclusive effect. Parenthetically, it may be noted that, even though an arbitration award cannot be vacated for errors of law, courts have interceded to protect parties from arbitrators’ erroneous determinations of the preclusive effect of earlier arbitration awards, vacating the subsequent awards on the ground that the arbitrators exceeded their authority (see e.g. Motor Veh. Acc. Indem. Corp. v Travelers Ins. Co., 246 AD2d 420 [1998]; Casey v Country-Wide Ins. Co., 240 AD2d 232 [1997]). Fairness to the parties also mandates, at some point, an end to litigation. “Afterthoughts or after discoveries however understandable and morally forgivable are generally not enough to create a right to litigate anew” (Matter of Reilly, 45 NY2d at 28). Nor, certainly, are ambushes planned in advance, particularly in the emotional minefields of matrimonial litigation. Fairness to the parties dictates that former spouses not have the power to drag one another back into legal proceedings on matters that were disposed of in their judgment of divorce (see Boronow, supra). In New York equitable distribution cases, when the court grants relief that permanently dissolves the marital status, the property questions are controlled not by ordinary property principles but by the provisions of the equitable distribution statute, which provides that the court “shall determine the respective rights of the parties in their separate or marital property” (Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [5] [a]). Similarly, in a Connecticut dissolution action, the distribution of marital property is governed by the criteria set forth in Connecticut General Statutes § 46b-81 (see Bleuer v Bleuer, 59 Conn App 167, 172-173, 755 A2d 946, 949-950 [2000]; see also Debowsky v Debowsky, 12 Conn App 525, 526, 532 A2d 591, 592 [1987] [“A fundamental principle in dissolution actions is that a trial court may exercise broad discretion in awarding alimony and dividing property as long as it considers all relevant statutory criteria”]). The “wasteful dissipation of assets by either spouse” is one of the statutory criteria for the court’s consideration in New York (see Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [5] [d] [11]). In Connecticut, where the court “may assign to either the husband or wife all or any part of the estate of the other” (Conn Gen Stat § 46b-81 [a]), in fixing the nature and value of any property to be assigned, the court must consider “the contribution of each of the parties in the acquisition, preservation or appreciation in value of their respective estates” (Conn Gen Stat § 46b-81 [c]; see Bleuer, 59 Conn App at 174, 755 A2d at 950 [affirming court’s decision to distribute property to plaintiff “because the defendant destroyed whatever value the business might have had”]). Thus, whether it is expressed as the wasteful dissipation of assets by one spouse or the diminution of the assets by the spouse’s misconduct in her capacity as securities broker for herself and her husband, the claim that Benjamin deliberately reserved for arbitration was extinguished in the divorce action because it arose out of the same “factual grouping” as the claims in that action (see generally Matter of Reilly, supra). Indeed, the factual findings and the orders entered in the divorce judgment reallocating the parties’ resources indicate that the claim of investment misconduct was raised in substance, though perhaps not in haec verba, and addressed in that action. We hold therefore that Benjamin’s claim that Clayton fraudulently induced and misdirected the investment of his funds in their joint brokerage account is barred by res judicata (Schuylkill Fuel Corp. v B. & C. Nieberg Realty Corp., 250 NY 304, 306-307 [1929] [“A judgment in one action is conclusive in a later one not only as to any matters actually litigated therein, but also as to any that might have been so litigated, when the two causes of action have such a measure of identity that a different judgment in the second would destroy or impair rights or interests established by the first”]; Partlow v Kolupa, 122 AD2d 509, 510 [1986] [barring plaintiffs claim of conversion because it could have been litigated in the earlier divorce action], affd 69 NY2d 927 [1987]). Benjamin’s argument that he could not have litigated his claim against petitioner Merrill Lynch in the divorce action does not alter the result. Benjamin’s claim against Merrill Lynch is derivative of his claims against Clayton. While he might have openly reserved these claims against Clayton and Merrill Lynch for later disposition in another forum (see e.g. McCasland v McCasland, 68 NY2d 748 [1986] [plaintiff specifically reserved her right to pursue her claims to an equitable share of defendant’s interests in certain corporations]), Benjamin chose instead to raise them after the matrimonial action had finally resolved all issues relating to the joint brokerage account. He may not now press these claims against Clayton or Merrill Lynch (compare Matter of Zimmerman [Cohen], 236 NY 15, 19 [1923] [defendant deliberately waived his right to enforce arbitration by choosing to proceed by an action in court to determine his claims]; Esquire Indus. v East Bay Textiles, 68 AD2d 845 [1979] [same]). Accordingly, the order and judgment (one paper) of the Supreme Court, New York County, entered February 27, 2003, which granted the petition to stay arbitration, should be affirmed, without costs. Buckley, P.J., Mazzarelli, Williams and Marlow, JJ., concur. Order and judgment (one paper), Supreme Court, New York County, entered February 27, 2003, affirmed, without costs. . Alexander, Practice Commentaries, McKinney’s Cons Laws of NY, Book 7B, CPLR C7501:l, at 286 (1998). . Alexander, supra at 287. . Scheinkman, Practice Commentaries, McKinney’s Cons Laws of NY, Book 14, Domestic Relations Law C234:2, at 104 (1999).
OPINION OF THE COURT Townes, J. On this appeal we are asked to consider whether proof that an allegedly dangerous condition on real property is “open and obvious” precludes a finding of liability against a landowner. Recognizing that our decisions on this issue may appear inconsistent, we take this opportunity to clarify that the open and obvious nature of an allegedly dangerous condition is relevant to the issue of the comparative fault of the plaintiff and does not preclude a finding of liability against the landowner. The plaintiff Denise Cupo was employed as a courier for Federal Express Corporation (hereinafter Fed Ex) when she was injured while making a delivery to the appellants’ building in Brooklyn. The plaintiff was pulling a manual hydraulic lift loaded with boxes across the public sidewalk from her truck toward the delivery entrance at the appellants’ building when the lift suddenly stopped and turned over, allegedly causing the plaintiff to lose her balance and fall to the ground. The plaintiff claims that, as a result of the accident, she suffered a herniated disc in her lumbar spine which required surgical intervention. The plaintiff testified at her examination before trial that the front wheel of the lift caught in a depressed area of the sidewalk where the sidewalk met the metal grille of a four-by-eleven feet transformer vault installed and maintained by the defendant Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (hereinafter Con Edison). The manual lift and pallet used by the plaintiff to transport the boxes were provided by the appellant American Stock Transfer Co., which received Fed Ex deliveries of 15 to 30 large heavy boxes daily. The plaintiff commenced this action and asserts that the City of New York, as the owner of the sidewalk, Con Edison, as the owner of the transformer vault, the appellants, as the owner of the property abutting the public sidewalk, and two tenants of the appellants’ building were negligent in that they created or allowed the continued existence of a dangerous condition in the uneven, sunken, and depressed sidewalk near the metal grating, and that the condition caused her to fall. Following the completion of discovery, the appellants moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them on the ground that, as abutting landowners, they were not responsible for the defect that allegedly caused the plaintiffs injury because the defect was on a public sidewalk owned by the City and near a grille over a vault owned by Con Edison. The appellants also contended that, in any event, they owed no duty to the plaintiff because the condition that allegedly caused her to fall was open and obvious and known to her, as she had previously delivered boxes to that property. The plaintiff, Con Edison, and the City opposed the motion, arguing that, even though the appellants did not own the sidewalk where the plaintiff fell, the appellants’ use of the sidewalk as a driveway to serve their building’s loading docks was a special benefit unrelated to the public use, and they therefore had a duty to maintain the sidewalk in a safe condition. The plaintiff annexed to her papers in opposition to the motion the affidavit of an engineer who opined that the defect in the sidewalk that allegedly caused the plaintiffs fall was created by heavy truck traffic driving over the edge of the transformer vault, which caused the sidewalk to crack and break up. The Supreme Court, inter alia, denied the motion, holding that the plaintiff raised an issue of fact as to whether the alleged defect was caused by the appellants’ special use of the sidewalk. The Supreme Court further held that the issue of whether the alleged defect was open and obvious was significant only as to the plaintiffs comparative fault and would not relieve the appellants of liability altogether so as to entitle them to summary judgment. The appellants do not dispute on appeal that the plaintiff raised a triable issue of fact as to whether the defect was caused by their special use of the sidewalk (see Vought v Hemminger, 220 AD2d 580, 582 [1995]). However, they argue that, regardless of whether they created the defect, they were entitled to summary judgment because there is no duty to warn or protect a person from a condition that is open and obvious and can easily be observed with the reasonable use of the senses. A landowner “must act as a reasonable [person] in maintaining his [or her] property in a reasonably safe condition in view of all the circumstances, including the likelihood of injury to others, the seriousness of the injury, and the burden of avoiding the risk” (Peralta v Henriquez, 100 NY2d 139, 144 [2003], quoting Basso v Miller, 40 NY2d 233, 241 [1976]). “Although a jury determines whether and to what extent a particular duty was breached, it is for the court first to determine whether any duty exists, taking into consideration the reasonable expectations of the parties and society generally. The scope of any such duty of care varies with the foreseeability of the possible harm” (Tagle v Jakob, 97 NY2d 165, 168 [2001]). The scope of a landowner’s duty to maintain property in a reasonably safe condition may also include the duty to warn of a dangerous condition. However, a landowner has no duty to warn of an open and obvious danger. Unless a hazard is latent, a person entering the property is just as aware as the landowner of the condition of the property and the risks associated with it (see Tagle v Jakob, supra at 169-170). Here, the evidence submitted on the motion established that the condition of the sidewalk was readily observable and that the plaintiff often traversed the sidewalk. Accordingly, we agree with the appellants’ contention that they had no duty to warn the plaintiff of the sidewalk defect. Apart from the duty to warn of dangerous conditions on the property, a landowner also has a concomitant duty to keep the property in a reasonably safe condition for those who use it (see Basso v Miller, supra). Our decisions have been inconsistent, however, as to whether proof that a dangerous condition is open and obvious precludes a finding of liability against a landowner or, instead, is merely relevant to the issue of the plaintiff’s comparative negligence (compare Sandler v Patel, 288 AD2d 459 [2001], and Campanaro v Arizona Lipnob Estates, 259 AD2d 581 [1999], with Acevedo v Camac, 293 AD2d 430 [2002], and Massucci v Amoco Oil Co., 292 AD2d 351 [2002]). Where a plaintiff has presented evidence that a dangerous condition exists on the property, the burden shifts to the landowner to demonstrate that he or she exercised reasonable care under the circumstances to remedy the condition and to make the property safe, based on such factors as the likelihood of injury to those entering the property and the burden of avoiding the risk. Evidence that the dangerous condition was open and obvious cannot relieve the landowner of this burden. Indeed, to do so would lead to the absurd result that landowners would be least likely to be held liable for failing to protect persons using their property from foreseeable injuries where the hazards were the most blatant. We agree with the recent decision of the Appellate Division, Third Department, in MacDonald v City of Schenectady (308 AD2d 125 [2003]) and hold that proof that a dangerous condition is open and obvious does not preclude a finding of liability against a landowner for the failure to maintain the property in a safe condition but is relevant to the issue of the plaintiffs comparative negligence. Accordingly, our decisions which stand for the broad proposition that liability under a theory of common-law negligence will not attach when the allegedly dangerous condition is open and obvious should no longer be followed (see e.g. Sandler v Patel, supra; Bojovic v New York City Hous. Auth., 284 AD2d 356 [2001]). In holding that the open and obvious nature of a condition is relevant to the issue of the plaintiffs comparative negligence, we emphasize that this will be an issue only in cases where it can reasonably be argued that a dangerous condition existed on the property which the landowner was under a duty to remedy. We do not suggest that a court is precluded from granting summary judgment to a landowner on the ground that the condition complained of by the plaintiff was both open and obvious and, as a matter of law, was not inherently dangerous (see e.g. Gibbons v Lido & Point Lookout Fire Dist., 293 AD2d 646 [2002] [cement parking block on floor of a firehouse]; Connor v Taylor Rental Ctr., 278 AD2d 270 [2000] [forklift in a marked stall in a parking lot]; Plessias v Scalia Home for Funerals, 271 AD2d 423 [2000] [concrete parking divider]; Maravalli v Home Depot U.S.A., 266 AD2d 437 [1999] [sink vanity on the floor of the store aisle]). In such circumstances, the condition which caused the accident cannot fairly be attributed to any negligent maintenance of the property. In the instant case, the evidence presented an issue of fact as to whether the appellants fulfilled their obligation to maintain the sidewalk in a reasonably safe condition. The Supreme Court properly determined that the open and obvious condition of the sidewalk did not absolve the appellants of liability but instead presented an issue of fact as to the plaintiffs comparative fault. Accordingly, the appellants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them was properly denied and the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from. Altman, J.E, Krausman and Rivera, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with one bill of costs.
OPINION OF THE COURT Per Curiam. Respondent Andrea M. Mercado was admitted to the practice of law in the State of New York by the First Judicial Department on September 28, 1987, as Andrea Morgan Mercado. At all times relevant to these proceedings, respondent maintained an office for the practice of law within the First Judicial Department. On or about January 17, 2002, respondent pleaded guilty in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud in violation of 18 USC § 371 and one count of wire fraud in violation of 18 USC § 1343, both federal felonies. Respondent is currently awaiting sentencing for these crimes. The Departmental Disciplinary Committee (Committee) seeks an order pursuant to Judiciary Law § 90 (4) (a) and (b) striking respondent’s name from the roll of attorneys on the ground that she has been disbarred upon her convictions of a felony, as defined by Judiciary Law § 90 (4) (e). Alternatively, the Committee argues that the convictions constitute “serious crime[s]” under Judiciary Law § 90 (4) (d), and therefore respondent should immediately be suspended from the practice of law and the matter referred to a Hearing Panel for consideration of the appropriate sanction (Judiciary Law § 90 [4] [f]-[h]). Respondent concedes that her convictions constitute “serious crime[s]” and she has consented to immediate suspension and referral for a sanction hearing. Respondent opposes, however, automatic disbarment under Judiciary Law § 90 (4) (a). A conviction of a federal felony does not trigger automatic disbarment unless the offense would constitute a felony under the New York Penal Law (see Matter of Kim, 209 AD2d 127, 129 [1995]; Judiciary Law § 90 [4] [e]). The federal felony need not be a “mirror image” of the New York felony in that it need not correspond in every detail, but it must be essentially similar (Matter of Margiotta, 60 NY2d 147, 150 [1983]). Respondent is correct that the underlying federal felonies of wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud have no direct felony analogs under New York law. Nevertheless, where the statutory language defining the federal offense is not “essentially similar” to a felony under the laws of this state, the essential similarity between the federal offense and a New York felony may be established in the admissions under oath made during respondent’s federal plea allocution (Matter of Peiffer, 274 AD2d 158, 159 [2000]; Matter of Lulkin, 258 AD2d 209, 210 [1999]), which may be read in conjunction with the federal indictment or information (Matter of Peiffer, 274 AD2d at 159). In her plea allocution in federal court, respondent admitted to conduct that would constitute the New York felony of scheme to defraud in the first degree, an E felony (see Penal Law § 190.65 [1] [b]), which requires proof that the defendant “engage[d] in [a] scheme constituting a systematic ongoing course of conduct with intent to defraud more than one person or to obtain property from more than one person by false . . . pretenses, representations or promises, and so obtains property with a value in excess of one thousand dollars from one or more such persons.” Specifically, she admitted that from the fall of 1999 to October 2000 she “assisted” her coconspirator in obtaining funds from investors through misrepresentations; that she was aware that her coconspirator intended to use the funds for personal purposes and did in fact use such funds for personal purposes; that she knew that the investors were being misled and that it was “wrong and unlawful” to obtain the funds in this manner; and that the amount illegally obtained was approximately $94,000. Since these factual admissions demonstrate that respondent was convicted of a New York felony as defined by Judiciary Law § 90 (4) (e), automatic disbarment is appropriate (see Matter of Muraskin, 302 AD2d 33, 34 [2002]; Matter of Lulkin, 258 AD2d at 210-211). We reject respondent’s argument that the admissions in her federal plea allocution do not satisfy the elements of scheme to defraud in the first degree because she only “assisted” her coconspirator. Respondent’s level of participation is not an element of the crime (see Matter of Lulkin, 258 AD2d at 211), and neither her purported lesser role in the scheme nor her emotional dependence on her coconspirator negate her accessorial liability for the conduct to which she has admitted (see Penal Law § 20.00). Consequently, as respondent has been convicted of a felony within the meaning of Judiciary Law § 90 (4) (e) and has automatically ceased to be an attorney by operation of law upon entry of her guilty plea, her name should be stricken from the roll of attorneys (see Matter of Remmelink, 233 AD2d 25, 26 [1997]). Accordingly, the Committee’s petition should be granted and respondent’s name stricken from the roll of attorneys pursuant to Judiciary Law § 90 (4) (a) and (b) upon the ground that respondent has been disbarred as a result of her convictions of federal felonies that would constitute felonies under New York law. Mazzarelli, J.E, Sullivan, Lerner, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ.,. concur. Respondent’s name stricken from the roll of attorneys and counselors-at-law in the State of New York, effective nunc pro tunc to January 17, 2002.
OPINION OF THE COURT Sullivan, J. This is an action to recover under an insurance policy for a $150,849.40 loss sustained as a result of a truck hijacking. The matter is before us on appeal from the grant of the defendant insurer’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. The evidence shows that on March 13, 2000, when the subject property, a shipment of ladies’ clothing, was allegedly stolen by armed robbers, it was aboard a truck parked for approximately five hours on a Mexico City street awaiting entry to the customs area of the airport for air transport to plaintiff in New York City. On December 7, 1998, defendant issued to plaintiff a Marine Open Cargo policy, which, at the time of the theft, contained the following warranty, appearing in endorsement No. 6: “Warranted that each truck be accompanied by an armed escort in front and behind the vehicle carrying the goods. Each armed escort must have a minimum of two (2) armed guards and be equipped with two-way radios and cellular phones. Should escort be ‘unarmed,’ there will be a 10% deductible, on the entire value of the entire shipment, for any losses within Mexico.” (Emphasis in original.) This endorsement, which, at plaintiff’s request, amended an earlier warranty, warranted that the carriage truck would be accompanied by two escort vehicles, each equipped with two-way radios and cell phones with a minimum of two guards in each escort vehicle, that is, the front and back, was clear and unambiguous on its face (see e.g. Freedom Cashier v Federal Ins. Co., 262 AD2d 353, 354 [1999]). In support of its claim, plaintiff submitted a communication from Victor Ponce of DSL, the truck carrier hired by plaintiff, stating that the “crew who were on the theft” were “Truck Driver: Salvador Munoz Morales[,] Front Truck Driver: John Edgar Flores[,] Rear Truck Driver: Juan Roberto Jiminez.” Jiminez and Flores were identified as the “two truckers guarding your load.” Defendant obtained notarized statements from each of these drivers, in the form of questionnaires, answered in Spanish in their own handwriting and duly translated into English. These statements reveal that Jiminez, the person in charge, was asleep at the time of the theft, that there was no truck in the rear of the transport truck, that the two-way radios were left at the “sitio” (nearby small building), rather than in the trucks, that none of the three witnesses had cell phones, and that none were guards, had ever worked as a guard or received training to be a guard. Jiminez wrote, “We are not guards[,] we are truckers”; nor did any of them have a permit to be a guard. All three truckers confirmed that the rear truck was parked next to, not behind, as warranted, the truck carrying the merchandise. Munoz, the driver of the truck carrying the shipment, was sitting in another truck, talking and waiting for papers, presumably clearing the shipment for air transport. Plaintiff argues and the dissent agrees that there is ambiguity in the term guard because it is not defined in the policy, a rather startling conclusion, given that the three truckers, whatever their level of formal education, recognized that they were not guards. Courts should not strain to find an ambiguity in an insurance policy where none exists (Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y. v United Coastal Ins. Co., 216 AD2d 137 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 808 [1996]), particularly where the language in question was the result of negotiations between the insurer and insured (Moshiko, Inc. v Seiger & Smith, 137 AD2d 170, 174 [1988], affd 72 NY2d 945 [1988]). The warranty at issue had been amended at plaintiffs behest in a request that used the very word “guards,” and was based on plaintiffs representation that four guards would accompany each truck shipment. Thus, plaintiff, using a new inland carrier, through its broker, submitted to defendant the following proposed change to the existing security arrangement: “The Custodial Service will provide a minimum of the following to ensure the contents and integrity of the cargo remain intact: “Two (2) Vehicles—One (1) in front of the trailer and one (1) behind the trailer. Each vehicle will have a minimum of two (2) guards armed with semiautomatic or automatic weapons .... All [cjustodial vehicles are equipped with two way radios and cellular phones.” Plaintiff requested that defendant confirm “in writing (and via endorsement if necessary) that this carrier and [its] protocol are approved.” Defendant replied, “Agreed . . . Endorsement in processing”; endorsement No. 6 was thereafter issued. And, of course, as is clear from the record, notwithstanding the DSL invoice relied on by the dissent referring to “guard service,” which, in itself, is of no probative value, the persons accompanying the shipment were not, as warranted, guards (see Jarvis Towing & Transp. Corp. v Aetna Ins. Co., 298 NY 280 [1948]). Plaintiff argues, frivolously, that endorsement No. 6 could be interpreted as requiring only two guards. This argument, based on the language in the endorsement requiring that each truck containing a shipment be “accompanied by an armed escort in front and behind the vehicle carrying the goods,” ignores not only the next sentence, which provides that “[e]ach armed escort must have a minimum of two (2) armed guards,” but also the fact that, as noted, the specifications plaintiff forwarded to defendant provided for two “[v]ehicles,” one in front of the trailer and one behind, each having a minimum of two guards armed with semiautomatic or automatic weapons. There is no room for a construction of an “escort” as anything other than a vehicle. Nor did plaintiff comply with the warranty contained in endorsement No. 6 insofar as it required that the two escort vehicles be equipped with two-way radios and cell phones. There was no escort vehicle, as the endorsement required, “behind the vehicle carrying the goods.” The vehicles did not contain two-way radios, which had been left in the “sitio,” a nearby building, and were therefore unavailable. The vehicles did not contain cell phones, which had also been left in the sitio. Endorsement No. 6 constitutes a warranty as a matter of law within the meaning of Insurance Law § 3106 (a), which, insofar as is relevant, states, “ ‘[Wlarranty’ means any provision of an insurance contract which has the effect of requiring, as a condition precedent of the taking effect of such contract or as a condition precedent of the insurer’s liability thereunder, the existence of a fact which tends to diminish . . . the risk of the occurrence of any loss . . . within the coverage of the contract.” Not only is endorsement No. 6 a warranty within the meaning of Insurance Law § 3106 (a), it also constitutes an express, promissory warranty under common-law principles (see Commercial Union Ins. Co. v Flagship Mar. Servs., Inc., 190 F3d 26, 31 [1999]). . The warranty that the truck will be accompanied by two equipped escort vehicles was conclusively breached as a matter of law (see Primo Outfitting Co. v Glens Falls Ins. Co., 269 App Div 906 [1945], affd 295 NY 910 [1946]). Similarly fatal is the breach of the four-guard warranty. In Anchor Armored Delivery v Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London (146 Misc 2d 545, 546 [1990], affd 177 AD2d 611 [1991]), the court held that the fact that the truck had only a two-man crew constituted a breach where it was “[w]arranted not less than three crew to each vehicle whilst carrying interest insured.” In nonmarine cases, a breach of warranty that materially increases the insurer’s risk of loss within the meaning of Insurance Law § 3106 (b) precludes coverage as a matter of law (M. Fabrikant & Sons v Overton & Co. Customs Brokers, 209 AD2d 206, 207 [1994]). Although plaintiff does not argue otherwise, it is beyond dispute that the presence of two escort vehicles equipped with two-way radios and cellular phones and a minimum of four guards, armed, was material to the risk of loss by hijackers. If nothing else, their presence might well have persuaded the hijackers to look elsewhere. The dissent correctly observes that the policy provides that if the escorts were unarmed, plaintiffs claim would be subject to a 10% deductible on the value of the shipment. While, as defendant correctly notes, plaintiff never raised the issue before the motion court, “the interpretation of an insurance policy is a question of law which can be raised for the first time on appeal” (Lumbermens Mut. Cas. Co. v Schrem, 227 AD2d 280 [1996]). In any event, the deductible provision is inapplicable because plaintiff is not entitled to any recovery under the policy since it breached the warranty in every respect—there were no guards, two-way radios, cell phones or any rear escort vehicle. Victor Ponce’s statement that there were vehicles in front and in back of the vehicle carrying the goods is insufficient to create a factual issue as to the location of the accompanying vehicles at the time of the theft since he was not at the scene and thus does not have personal knowledge of the facts. His statement that the men assigned to the vehicles “had two-way radios and cellular phones in both escorts,” contradicting the statements of those present at the time of theft, suffers from the same defect. Plaintiff is not entitled to a partial recovery despite its complete breach of the warranty by limiting its default to the absence of armed guards, when it never provided any guard, much less armed guards. Thus, the complaint was properly dismissed. We have examined plaintiffs other contentions and find that they are without merit. Accordingly, the order of the Supreme Court, New York County (Harold Tompkins, J.), entered August 24, 2001, which granted defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, should be affirmed, with costs and disbursements.
OPINION OF THE COURT Sullivan, J. In this action by a commercial tenant seeking a declaration of waiver as to a lease requirement of prior written consent tb subletting, the landlord appeals from the grant of the tenant’s application for a Yellowstone injunction tolling the time to cure the alleged lease violation of subletting without consent and the denial of its cross motion to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (1) and (7). Defendant is the landlord of a building known as the Chelsea Market, located at 75 Ninth Avenue in New York City, a portion of the third floor of which (the premises) is rented to plaintiff, a commercial tenant. Pursuant to a written lease dated December 1, 1991, defendant’s predecessor, Manark Associates, originally leased a portion of the building’s ground floor to plaintiffs predecessor, Trade Color Offset Corp. Subsequently, on June 5, 1995, by written agreement between Manark, as landlord, and A&D Danitoni, Inc., another predecessor of plaintiff, as tenant, that lease was amended to allow Danitoni to relinquish possession of the ground floor leased premises and take possession of the premises. The lease provides, clearly and unambiguously, that the tenant is forbidden from subletting the premises, or any portion thereof, without the landlord’s prior written consent, which shall not unreasonably be withheld. Should the tenant wish to sublet all or any portion of the premises, the tenant is required to send its request in writing to the landlord and include with such request the name of the proposed subtenant (or its principals, if the tenant is other than an individual), the nature of its business, information as to its financial responsibility and standing and such other information as the landlord might reasonably require. The receipt of a written request for permission to sublet triggers certain rights of the landlord under the lease. In the event the request is for permission to sublet the entire premises, the landlord has the right to terminate the lease and recapture possession of the premises as of the proposed date of the commencement of the sublease. In determining the reasonableness of the landlord’s rejection of the request, the relevant factors under article 9.05 of the lease are, among other things, the restrictions contained in the leases of other tenants in the building, the financial condition of the proposed subtenant, the effect the proposed subtenant’s occupancy on the “operation and maintenance” of the building and whether the proposed sublease is at a rental rate less than the market rate for other space in the building. Essentially, article 9.05 affords the landlord control over who occupies the building, the purpose for which its building is used and whether the financial terms of the subleases conflict with other rentals in the building. In addition to the rights triggered by a request for permission to sublet, the lease affords certain other protections to the landlord in the event of either an approved sublet or failure to obtain prior written consent to sublet, each of which is intended to preclude the possibility of an unintended waiver by the landlord. For example, the landlord’s consent to one subtenant does not relieve the obligation to obtain prior written consent as to future sublets (art 9.01), and the listing of the subtenant’s name on the door or building directory shall not be deemed a consent (art 9.07). The lease also contains general nonwaiver clauses providing that the landlord’s acceptance of rent with knowledge of any breach of the lease is not to be deemed a waiver of such breach (art 29.02 [b]) and that the landlord’s failure to insist on the strict performance of a lease obligation shall not be construed as a waiver (art 29.01). A merger clause requires that any waiver of a lease provision be in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of the waiver is sought (id.). During a deposition on July 16, 2002 in a related action between the same parties, plaintiffs treasurer admitted that eight entities were occupying or subletting the premises. It is undisputed that plaintiff put the subtenants into possession without defendant’s prior written consent and that plaintiff is collecting rent and profiting from the alleged illegal subtenancies. Indeed, plaintiff admits that it has a “sweetheart” lease and that its rent is “significantly” lower than market value. After plaintiffs treasurer testified, by written notice dated July 18, 2002, defendant served a default notice stating that plaintiff was in violation of the lease by virtue of the subletting without prior written consent. In response to the default notice, plaintiff commenced this action seeking a declaration that defendant, through its conduct, waived the prior written consent requirement of the lease. Simultaneously therewith, it sought a Yellowstone injunction against termination of the lease. Admitting that it had placed the subtenants in possession without defendant’s prior written consent, plaintiff cited, in support of its claim of waiver, that defendant consented to the subletting, that the subtenants’ names are listed on the building directory and that defendant accepted rent from plaintiff with knowledge of the subtenancies. Defendant opposed the motion for Yellowstone relief and cross-moved to dismiss the complaint based upon documentary evidence (CPLR 3211 [a] [1]). Specifically, defendant argued that the two factors relied upon by plaintiff to support its waiver claim were negated by the express, clear and unequivocal lease language, which specifically provided that neither the listing of subtenants on the building directory nor the acceptance of rent with knowledge of the tenant’s breach of the lease constituted a waiver. In the alternative, defendant argued that plaintiff was not entitled to Yellowstone relief because subletting without the landlord’s prior written consent is incurable as a matter of law. In opposition to the dismissal motion, plaintiff cited the two grounds asserted in support of its claim of waiver as well as defendant’s course of conduct in never insisting on written requests to sublet. Responding to defendant’s argument that its breach in subletting without prior written consent was incurable, plaintiff asserted that if it were unsuccessful in proving a waiver it was prepared to commence summary proceedings to terminate the subtenancies. Rejecting the argument that subletting without consent is incurable, Supreme Court granted a Yellowstone injunction, conditioned solely on plaintiffs continued payment of rent, and, finding issues of fact as to whether defendant’s knowledge, acquiescence or active involvement in the subletting constituted a waiver of the lease prohibition, denied defendant’s cross motion to dismiss. The complaint should have been dismissed. Pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (1), where the “documentary evidence submitted conclusively establishes a defense to the asserted claims as a matter of law,” dismissal is warranted (Leon v Martinez, 84 NY2d 83, 88 [1994]). It bears noting that “[w]hile a complaint is to be liberally construed in favor of plaintiff on a CPLR 3211 motion to dismiss, the court is not required to accept factual allegations that are plainly contradicted by the documentary evidence” (Robinson v Robinson, 303 AD2d 234, 235 [2003]). A written agreement that is complete, clear and unambiguous on its face must be enforced according to the plain meaning of its terms (R/S Assoc. v New York Job Dev. Auth., 98 NY2d 29, 32 [2002]). Courts “are obliged to interpret a contract so as to give meaning to all of its terms” (Mionis v Bank Julius Baer & Co., 301 AD2d 104, 109 [2002]). Here, the lease provisions unambiguously and unequivocally negate the two essential facts asserted by plaintiff in support of its claim of waiver as alleged in the complaint. Waiver is the voluntary abandonment or relinquishment of a known right (Jefpaul Garage Corp. v Presbyterian Hosp., 61 NY2d 442, 446 [1984]). There, like here, the tenant argued that, by accepting rent with knowledge of the tenant’s violations and without terminating the lease, the landlord had waived the lease violations as a matter of law. As here, the lease contained a nonwaiver and merger clause that provided: “The receipt by Landlord of rent with knowledge of the breach of any covenant of this lease shall not be deemed a waiver of such breach and no provision of this lease shall be deemed to have been waived by Landlord unless such waiver be in writing signed by the Landlord” (id.). The Court held that tenant’s waiver argument was barred by the clause, stating, “Its language is clear and unambiguous. The parties having mutually assented to its terms, the clause should be enforced to preclude a finding of waiver of the conditions precedent to renewal” (id.). Thus, it is clear that the partiés to a commercial lease may mutually agree that conduct, which might otherwise give rise to an inference of waiver, shall not be deemed a waiver of specific bargained-for provisions of a lease (see Monarch Info. Servs. v 161 William Assoc., 103 AD2d 703 [1984]). Here, the lease specifically provides that the listing on the building directory of the names of the subtenants whose sublets have not received the landlord’s prior written consent, shall not be deemed consent to the sublet. In addition, the lease specifically provides that the landlord’s acceptance of rent with knowledge of the tenant’s breach of the lease shall not be deemed a waiver of such breach. Thus, Supreme Court erred in disregarding the clear, unambiguous terms of this negotiated lease; its determination “effectively rendered] meaningless a part of the contract” (Helmsley-Spear, Inc. v New York Blood Ctr., 257 AD2d 64, 69 [1999]; see A&J Corp. III v VW II, 303 AD2d 430 [2003]), i.e., articles 9.07 and 29.02 (b) of the lease, and failed “to give meaning to all of its terms” (Mionis v Bank Julius Baer & Co., supra at 109). In addition to the pertinent specific nonwaiver clause involved, article 9.07 (the listing of any name other than that of the tenant on the doors of the demised premises or the building directory), the lease contains two general nonwaiver clauses: article 29.01 (the landlord’s failure to insist on strict performance of a lease obligation/no oral modification) and article 29.02 (b) (the landlord’s receipt of rent with knowledge of a breach of a lease obligation). Since each of plaintiff’s factual arguments in support of its waiver claim is negated by the express language of the lease, the cross motion to dismiss based on documentary evidence should have been granted. Supreme Court’s reliance on Simon & Son Upholstery v 601 W. Assoc. (268 AD2d 359 [2000]) is misplaced. In that case, the prior landlord’s “active involvement” in approving alterations made to the premises so that it could be used as a photography studio (a prohibited use under the lease), in providing the tenant with parking for the studio, in accepting rent from the photography tenant and using the studio in connection with a sales brochure for the building, all wholly inconsistent with the express terms of the lease, were held to be sufficient to “indic[ate] that the reasonable expectations of both parties under the original lease were supplanted by subsequent actions” (id. at 360). In this case, however, there is no similar “active involvement” on the part of defendant indicating an agreement to modify the lease. Since plaintiff had no case on the purely legal issue of waiver of the lease prohibition against subletting, Supreme Court also erred in granting a Yellowstone injunction where there is no issue for future determination. Accordingly, the order of the Supreme Court, New York County (Marcy Friedman, J.), entered on or about October 28, 2002, which granted plaintiffs motion for a Yellowstone injunction and denied defendant’s cross motion to dismiss the complaint, should be reversed, on the law, with costs and disbursements, the cross motion granted, the motion dismissed as academic and the Yellowstone injunction vacated, effective 10 days after service of a copy of this order with notice of entry. The Clerk is directed to enter judgment in favor of defendant dismissing the complaint. Tom, J.E, Rosenberger and Gonzalez, JJ., concur. Order, Supreme Court, New York County, entered on or about October 28, 2002, reversed, on the law, with costs and disbursements, defendant’s cross motion to dismiss the complaint granted, plaintiffs motion dismissed as academic and the Yellowstone injunction vacated, effective 10 days after service of a copy of this order with notice of entry. The Clerk is directed to enter judgment in favor of defendant dismissing the complaint. Article 29.01 states: “The failure of Landlord to insist in any one or more instances upon the strict performance of any one or more of the obligations of this lease, or to exercise any election herein contained, shall not be construed as a waiver or relinquishment for the future of the performance of such one or more obligations of this lease or of the right to exercise such election, but the same shall continue and remain in full force and effect with respect to any subsequent breach, act or omission. No agreement hereinafter made between Landlord and Tenant shall be effective to change, modify, waive, release, discharge, terminate or effect an abandonment of this lease, in whole or in part, unless such executory agreement is in writing, refers expressly to this lease and is signed by the party against whom enforcement of the change, modification, waiver, release, discharge or termination or effectuation of the abandonment is sought.”
OPINION OF THE COURT Goldstein, J. At issue here is the statute of limitations applicable to a quo warranto action pursuant to Executive Law § 63-b. We hold that such actions are governed by CPLR 213 (1) which provides for a six-year statute of limitations for “an action for which no limitation is specifically prescribed by law.” The defendants Larry Delgado and Glen S. Hockley were candidates in the November 6, 2001, general election for the public office of member of the City of White Plains Common Council. After the Westchester County Board of Elections reported that Hockley secured 47 more votes than Delgado, Delgado challenged the results in a proceeding pursuant to Election Law article 16, on the ground that a malfunctioning voting machine deprived him of a sufficient number of votes to affect the outcome of the election. The Supreme Court converted the proceeding into an action for a declaratory judgment and directed a new election in the election district served by the malfunctioning voting machine. This Court modified the final order, and directed a city-wide election between Hockley and Delgado (see Matter of Delgado v Sunderland, 290 AD2d 440 [2002]). The Court of Appeals reversed the order of this Court and dismissed the proceeding on the ground that the exclusive remedy was a plenary action in the nature of quo warranto commenced by the attorney general pursuant to Executive Law § 63-b (see Matter of Delgado v Sunderland, 97 NY2d 420 [2002]; Matter of Hanington v Coveney, 62 NY2d 640 [1984]). Hockley took office on March 15, 2002, one day after the Court of Appeals rendered its decision. Following an investigation, a three-member panel consisting of two Assistant Attorneys General and one Assistant Solicitor General issued a report dated November 14, 2002, which found that at least 103 votes were cast for Delgado on the malfunctioning voting machine, but only 39 were recorded. Based upon that finding, the report recommended that a quo warranto action be instituted. The instant action against Hockley and Delgado was commenced on or about December 3, 2002. Hockley moved to dismiss the complaint on the ground that it was time-barred by the four-month statute of limitations set forth in CPLR 217 (1) for a “proceeding against a body or officer.” The Supreme Court denied the motion, holding that a quo warranto action “is a plenary action not subject to the four-month statute of limitations.” We affirm. The common-law remedy of quo -warranto is based upon the prerogative of the sovereign against “one who usurped, misused, or failed to exercise some office or franchise” (Matter of Smith v Dillon, 267 App Div 39, 41-42 [1943]; People v Miner, 2 Lans 396, 398 [1868]). Executive Law § 63-b codified the common-law remedy of quo warranto but failed to specify the applicable statute of limitations. In Matter of Delgado v Sunderland (97 NY2d at 424), the Court of Appeals held that “[t]he power to commence a quo warranto action is vested.in the Attorney General, to be used only after the alleged ‘usurper’ has taken office,” but did not rule on what constituted the ápplicable statute of limitations. Where a statute codifies or implements a common-law cause of action and does not specify a statute of limitations, the statute of limitations for the common-law cause of action applies (see Gaidon v Guardian Life Ins. Co. of Am., 96 NY2d 201, 208 [2001]). In People v Williamsburgh Turnpike Road & Bridge Co. (47 NY 586 [1872]) the Court of Appeals outlined the history of the statute of limitations for a quo warranto action. The statute of limitations for a “common relator” was 20 years but “no length of time” would bar an action brought by the attorney general on behalf of the crown (People v Williamsburgh Turnpike Road & Bridge Co., supra at 590). The 1829 Revised Statutes of New York provided that the State was subject to the same statute of limitations as individuals (see Rev Stat of NY, part III, ch IV tit II, § 28 [1st ed 1829]). The Code of Procedure, known as the Field Code, which was originally enacted in 1848 (L 1848, ch 379), reiterated this provision (Code Pro § 98; L 1849, ch 438) and enacted a 10-year statute of limitations for actions for which no specific statute of limitations was otherwise provided (see Code Pro § 97). The common-law writs of quo warranto and scire facias were abolished and the Legislature provided that “the remedies, heretofore obtainable in those forms, may be obtained by civil actions” (Code Pro § 428). The common-law writ of scire facias was somewhat similar to quo warranto in that its purpose was to revoke or annul grants improperly made by the sovereign or forfeited by the grantee (see People v Miner, supra at 398). With the enactment of the CPLR, the so-called residual statute of limitations for actions for which no specific statute of limitations was otherwise provided was shortened from 10 years to six years (see CPLR 213 [1]). In State of New York v Cortelle Corp. (38 NY2d 83 [1975]), the Court of Appeals applied the six-year statute of limitations set forth in CPLR 213 (1) to an action in the nature of scire facias or quo warranto brought by the Attorney General, inter alia, to dissolve corporations engaged in fraudulent practices. The four-month statute of limitations now set forth in CPLR 217 (1) was originally enacted in 1880 as part of Code of Civil Procedure, also known as the Throop Code (see State of New York v Cortelle Corp., supra). Code of Civil Procedure § 2125 provided that “a writ of certiorari to review a determination [of a body or officer] must be granted and served, within four calendar months after the determination to be reviewed becomes final and binding” (see L 1880, ch 178; People ex rel. Smith v Cooper, 22 Hun 515 [1880]). That provision was carried over into the Civil Practice Act as section 1288 (see L 1920, ch 925). In 1937, the common-law writs of mandamus and prohibition were abolished (see Civ Prac Act § 1283; L 1937, ch 526) and replaced by proceedings pursuant to article 78 of the Civil Practice Act (see Civ Prac Act §§ 1284-1306). Civil Practice Act § 1288 was renumbered section 1286 and made applicable to “[a] proceeding under this article to review a determination or to compel performance of a duty specifically enjoined by law.” Historically, the Legislature has treated quo warranto actions as separate and distinct from mandamus and certiorari proceedings (see 1880 Code Civ Pro §§ 1983-1990, 2067-2090, 2120-2148; 1920 Civ Prac Act arts 75, 78, 79; 1937 Civ Prac Act arts 75, 78). With the enactment of the CPLR, Civil Practice Act article 78 became CPLR article 78, while the statutory provisions relating to quo warranto were moved to the Executive Law (see Executive Law § 63-b). There is no indication that the Legislature ever intended that the four-month statute of limitations should apply to quo warranto actions (see generally Saratoga County Chamber of Commerce v Pataki, 100 NY2d 801 [2003]). Case law indicates that a quo warranto action should be “commenced prior to the expiration of the term of office that is contested” (Matter of Duncan v Board of Commrs. of Port Washington Police Dist., 207 AD2d 834, 836 [1994]; see Matter of Garufi v Bennett, 150 Misc 2d 799, 806 [1991]; Demarest v Fire Dept. of City of Norwalk, 76 Conn App 24, 817 A2d 1285 [2003]; Carleton v Civil Serv. Commn. of City of Bridgeport, 10 Conn App 209, 216, 522 A2d 825, 828 [1987]). Once the term of office has expired, the controversy is rendered academic, except for ancillary issues. The nature of the controversy, if any, is no longer over who is entitled to the office (see Goldstein v Kenville, 124 NYS2d 1 [1953]). Accordingly, we hold that an action in the nature of quo warranto must be commenced within six years of the time that the alleged usurper assumed public office or prior to the expiration of the term of office, whichever occurs first. Where the petitioner merely seeks a recanvass of the ballots, a proceeding pursuant to Election Law § 16-106, with a statute of limitation shorter than four months (see Election Law § 16-106 [5]), is the proper course (see Matter of Corrigan v Board of Elections of Suffolk County, 38 AD2d 825, 827 [1972], affd without op 30 NY2d 603 [1972]). A-proceeding pursuant to Election Law § 16-106 was not available here since the dispute could not be resolved merely by recanvassing the ballots (see Matter of Delgado v Sunderland, 97 NY2d at 423). Under certain circumstances, where only a question of law is involved, title to public office may be determined in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 in the nature of mandamus governed by a four-month statute of limitations (see e.g. Ellis v Eaton, 136 AD2d 890 [1988]; Matter of Dykeman v Symonds, 54 AD2d 159, 161 [1976]; Matter of Cullum v O’Mara, 43 AD2d 140, 145 [1973], affd 33 NY2d 357 [1974]). Mandamus was never available here, since resolution of the instant controversy requires testimony of electors to establish the number of votes cast for the candidate on the defective machine and findings of fact based thereon. As previously noted, the Court of Appeals has already determined that an action in the nature of quo warranto is both the appropriate and the exclusive remedy here (see Matter of Delgado v Sunderland, 97 NY2d at 424-425). The cumbersome nature of the remedy of quo warranto was recognized years ago, when the Legislature authorized commencement by a private person of a summary' proceeding to contest a corporate election (see General Corporation Law § 27; L 1892, ch 687; Rev Stat of NY, part I, ch XVIII, tit IV § 5 [1st ed 1829]) “to give the court power to test in a summary manner the title of corporate officers without resorting to the cumbersome action of quo warranto” (Matter of Lake Placid Co., 274 App Div 205, 207 [1948]). Such summary proceedings were governed by article 78 of the Civil Practice Act (see Matter of Hoe & Co., 14 Misc 2d 500 [1954], affd 285 App Div 927 [1955], affd 309 NY 719 [1955]). The authorization for such summary proceedings is now incorporated in Business Corporation Law § 619 (see Matter of Uranian Phalanstery 1st N.Y. Gnostic Lyceum Temple, 155 AD2d 302 [1989]). A proceeding pursuant to Business Corporation Law § 619 is separate and distinct from an action in the nature of quo warranto brought by the attorney general (see Matter of Schmidt, 97 AD2d 244, 249 [1983]). No such alternative summary proceeding is available to challenge the results of the general election in issue here. The Court of Appeals noted that the exclusivity of the quo warranto action, which may only be commenced after the alleged usurper has taken office, averts “the risk of leaving the contested office vacant for ... a protracted period” (Matter of Delgado v Sunderland, 97 NY2d at 424). Instead, we are faced with a scenario where the contested office has been filled for a protracted period of time by a person who allegedly was never validly elected to the office. The cumbersome nature of the remedy and the suitability of applying the six-year statute of limitations set forth in CPLR 213 (1) is a question for the Legislature, not the courts. The law with respect to quo warranto actions and the applicable statute of limitations was, for the most part, set in the 19th century or earlier. It is time that the Legislature reexamine these issues in light of 21st century considerations. In view of the foregoing, the order appealed from is affirmed. Altman, J.E, Adams and Mastko, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs.
OPINION OF THE COURT Crew III, J.P Petitioner and respondent formerly lived together in Pennsylvania with their biological child, Dakota (born in 1998). Following their separation, respondent relocated to New York with Dakota and her two sons from prior relationships. Several months later, respondent petitioned for custody of Dakota and, by order entered April 13, 2000, Family Court awarded the parties joint legal custody of Dakota, with physical custody to respondent and visitation to petitioner as the parties could agree. No agreement apparently was forthcoming and, in response to petitioner’s modification application, Family Court awarded petitioner visitation for three hours each Sunday. Petitioner subsequently filed a violation petition, prompting Family Court to issue an order entered October 15, 2001 awarding, inter alia, petitioner visitation with Dakota every other weekend from 6:00 p.m. Friday to 6:00 p.m. Sunday and two weeks of visitation during the summer. Visitation difficulties continued with petitioner missing approximately six visits with Dakota due to respondent’s failure to produce the child at the appointed time and place. As a result, by order entered September 3, 2002, Family Court awarded petitioner five consecutive days of visitation with the child. Two additional violation petitions ensued and, in January 2003, petitioner commenced the instant proceedings seeking, inter alia, to modify Family Court’s prior custody order and obtain full legal and physical custody of Dakota. Following a hearing, Family Court, citing respondent’s interference with petitioner’s visitation and what the court characterized as respondent’s unstable lifestyle, awarded the parties joint legal custody of Dakota, with physical custody to petitioner and liberal visitation to respondent. This appeal by the Law Guardian ensued. The case law makes clear that where, as here, an established custody arrangement is in place, that arrangement should not be altered absent some indication that a change in custody “will substantially enhance the child’s welfare and that the custodial parent is unfit or less fit to continue as such” (Matter of Kelly v Sanseverino, 278 AD2d 535, 536 [2000]; see Matter of Meola v Meola, 301 AD2d 1020, 1021 [2003]; Matter of Oddy v Oddy, 296 AD2d 616, 617 [2002]). This determination, in turn, requires consideration of a number of relevant factors including, inter alia, the quality of the respective home environments, the length of time the existing arrangement has been in place and each parent’s past performance, relative fitness and ability to provide for the child’s emotional and intellectual development (see Matter of Crocker v Crocker, 307 AD2d 402, 402 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 515 [2003]). In this regard, “it is the function of this Court ‘to insure that all relevant factors were evaluated by Family Court and that its decision has a sound and substantial basis in the record’ ” (Matter of Meola v Meola, supra at 1021, quoting Matter of Hudson v Hudson, 279 AD2d 659, 661 [2001] [emphasis added]). With these principles in mind, we now turn to the record bgfore us. As noted previously, Family Court’s decision to award physical custody to petitioner centered upon respondent’s “unstable life” and her interference with petitioner’s visitation rights. To be sure, the record reflects that respondent moved a number of times since returning to this state. These moves, however, which apparently did not require respondent’s children to change schools, appear to have been occasioned by respondent’s lack of gainful employment. At the time of trial in March 2003, respondent was working 32 hours per week at the local Wal-Mart, possessed a validly registered and insured motor vehicle, lived in a two-bedroom apartment and was current on her various financial obligations. Hence, the circumstances giving rise to respondent’s once transient lifestyle—her separation from petitioner and her inability to secure long-term employment—had abated by the time of trial. As for respondent’s interference with petitioner’s visitation rights, the record plainly indicates that respondent denied petitioner scheduled visitations with Dakota on various occasions, and this Court previously has held that a custodial parent’s persistent interference with the noncustodial parent’s visitation rights may well render the offending parent unfit (see Matter of Brodsky v Brodsky, 267 AD2d 897, 898-899 [1999]). We also have cautioned, however, that “evidence of a parent’s occasional interference with visitation cannot alone decide a custody dispute[, as] reversal of a custody order should not be a weapon wielded as a means of punishing a recalcitrant parent” (Matter of Ahmad v Naviwala, 306 AD2d 588, 591 [2003], lv dismissed 100 NY2d 615 [2003] [emphasis in original]). Here, although respondent’s denial of visitation goes beyond occasional interference, there is nothing in the record to suggest that she did so in a willful and/or malicious attempt to interfere with petitioner’s relationship with Dakota (see Matter of Carpenter v La May, 241 AD2d 625, 626 [1997]; compare Matter of Ahmad v Naviwala, supra). Indeed, with regard to the visitations missed in January 2003, it appears that there was a genuine misunderstanding as to the weekends that petitioner was supposed to visit with Dakota and that respondent denied such visits after consulting with her attorney. Thus, although we certainly do not condone respondent’s actions with regard to scheduled visitations between petitioner and Dakota and are well aware of the time, money and inconvenience that petitioner has had to endure in his commendable efforts to enforce his visitation rights in order to maintain a relationship with his son, we do not believe, based upon consideration of all the relevant factors, that depriving respondent of physical custody of her son is the appropriate remedy for her transgressions in this regard. By all accounts, the child enjoys a loving relationship with both parents, and there is nothing in the record to suggest that either home environment is not suitable for raising Dakota. Both parents were employed at the time of trial, and petitioner and respondent appear equally capable of providing for their son’s emotional and intellectual needs. Additionally, consideration must be given to the fact that Dakota has resided with respondent since birth and enjoys a positive relationship with his stepbrother Derrick, who also resides in respondent’s household. Finally, although the record reveals that respondent was the subject of a neglect petition based upon her failure to respond to concerns regarding Derrick, who ultimately was the subject of a person in need of supervision petition, both petitions were adjourned in contemplation of dismissal, and it appears that respondent and Derrick have been receiving the required services and/or counseling. And, while the neglect petition filed against respondent certainly raises concerns with regard to her ability to be an appropriate custodian for Dakota, so does petitioner’s out-of-state misdemeanor sex conviction for fondling a young child. In short, we simply are not persuaded that respondent is unfit to continue as Dakota’s custodial parent and that Dakota’s overall well-being would be substantially enhanced by a change in custody. Stated another way, petitioner has failed to demonstrate a sufficient change in circumstances to warrant the relief granted by Family Court. Accordingly, the underlying order is modified with regard to physical placement of the child, and this matter is remitted to Family Court for the fashioning of an appropriate visitation schedule for petitioner. On this point, we urge Family Court to craft a visitation schedule that not only affords petitioner liberal access to Dakota, but also sets forth those periods of visitation in excruciating detail, thereby eliminating the possibility of any future “misunderstandings” on respondent’s part as to when petitioner is entitled to be with his child. On this point, respondent would be well advised to scrupulously honor the visitation awarded to petitioner, as any further unwarranted interference on her part should result in contempt proceedings for which incarceration may be appropriate. Spain, Carpinello, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as awarded physical custody of the parties’ child to petitioner and awarded visitation to respondent; physical custody of the parties’ child is awarded to respondent and matter remitted to the Family Court of Schuyler County for the fashioning of an appropriate visitation schedule for petitioner; and, as so modified, affirmed. Enforcement of Family Court’s order has been stayed pending the outcome of this appeal.
OPINION OF THE COURT Per Curiam. Respondent Marshall C. Berger was admitted to the practice of law in the State of New York by the First Judicial Department on December 3, 1956 and, at all times relevant herein, has maintained an office for the practice of law within the First Judicial Department. Respondent, on or about June 27, 2002, was served with a notice and statement of charges by the Departmental Disciplinary Committee (the Committee) charging respondent with: two counts of violating New York Code of Professional Responsibility DR 1-102 (a) (4) (22 NYCRR 1200.3), in that he engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation; two counts of violating DR 1-102 (a) (5), in that he engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice; one count of violating DR 1-102 (a) (7), in that he engaged in conduct which adversely reflects on his fitness as an attorney; and one count of violating DR 7-106 (c) (7) (22 NYCRR 1200.37), which prohibits an attorney from intentionally or habitually violating any established rule of procedure or evidence. With regard to the last count, respondent is alleged to have engaged in the spoliation of evidence and perjury in a pretrial proceeding before the United States District Court, Southern District of New York, in the matter of Vincella Miller v Time-Warner Communications, Inc., et al. (Miller v Time). Respondent is also alleged to have intentionally made misrepresentations to the Committee regarding the status of his file in the federal action. Respondent, by answer dated July 25, 2002, admitted most of the factual allegations, but denied knowingly making any misrepresentations to the court, or the Committee, concerning his files. The Committee, prior to the hearing before the Referee, moved for a finding, pursuant to the doctrine of collateral estoppel, that respondent was guilty of professional misconduct under DR 1-102 (a) (4) and (7). The motion was based upon certain findings made by Judge Martin in Miller v Time, an employment discrimination action, in which respondent represented the plaintiff. During pretrial proceedings in that action, issues arose concerning certain erasures on documents produced by the plaintiff through respondent, although despite the erasures, much of what had been written was still legible. Defendant Time-Warner moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint based upon spoliation of evidence and, as a result, Judge Martin held an evidentiary hearing. During the course of the hearing, both respondent and his client testified that each was responsible for the erasures. Judge Martin concluded that plaintiff had deliberately erased handwritten notes she had made during the course of her employment in order to prevent discovery of the information by Time-Warner, and that plaintiff had deliberately perjured herself as to when and why the erasures occurred. Judge Martin, as a sanction for Miller’s perjury and spoliation of evidence, dismissed the complaint. The Referee, by memorandum decision dated September 10, 2002, denied the Committee’s collateral estoppel motion and found that the Committee’s allegations in counts one and five went beyond Judge Martin’s findings of false testimony because they charged respondent, in the alternative, with intentionally erasing notes prior to producing the documents, or falsely testifying that he had done so. The Referee also ruled that the Committee lacked evidence of venal intent on the part of respondent, being an essential element of the intentional misrepresentation charge and, as a result, concluded that respondent be permitted to contest the two counts which charged him with dishonest behavior. The Committee and respondent thereafter stipulated that, contrary to the findings made by Judge Martin, respondent had, in fact, made the erasures on the documents in Miller v Time, and that he also failed to comply with rule 26.2 of the Local Civil Rules of the United States District Courts for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, which requires an attorney withholding responsive material on the grounds of privilege to specify so in writing. Accordingly, the Committee’s case proceeded solely on the theory that respondent had, in fact, made the erasures. The Committee, during the course of its investigation, requested, by letter dated January 29, 2001, that respondent produce his original litigation file in Miller v Time. Respondent, by letter dated February 26, 2001, suggested that the Committee obtain the file from Time-Warner’s counsel because his files were in poor condition due to an office move. The Committee, in early September 2001 and again in October 2001, requested that respondent produce his file by October 10, 2001. Respondent failed to do so, but in a deposition held on October 17, 2001, respondent acknowledged that his file “was gone” and could not be located, that the file had been mislaid during an office move in September 2000, and that he knew it was missing at that time. The Committee, during the deposition, renewed its request for certain documents from the Miller v Time matter, and also requested respondent to provide any documentation regarding his attempt to locate and/or reconstruct his files. Respondent appeared again on December 6, 2001, but he did not have the requested items and admitted that he had not looked through his files to ascertain whether he had any documents from Miller v Time. The Referee, following a liability hearing held on September 24, 2002, issued a letter-report granting respondent’s motion to dismiss count one, which alleged that he had violated DR 1-102 (a) (4) by intentionally erasing handwritten notes prior to releasing them to opposing counsel. The Referee opined that respondent’s conduct was “thoroughly unprofessional and detrimental to his client,” but concluded that it had not involved intentional dishonesty or venality. The Referee also dismissed count two, which likewise alleged a violation of DR 1-102 (a) (4), in that respondent failed to act in a candid and cooperative manner regarding the Committee’s inquiries concerning his file in Miller v Time, as there was no evidence establishing a dishonest motive. The Referee, in a subsequent report dated December 20, 2002, sustained counts three through six and, as a sanction, recommended that respondent be publicly censured and required to attend 12 hours of continuing legal education (CLE) courses on the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, including at least six hours of instruction on discovery procedures under those rules. The Referee opined that: “As remarkable, an [sic] unexplainable, as it is for a veteran of more than 43 years of litigation practice in the state and federal courts to have acted and failed to act as described above, I find that none of this misconduct was motivated by venal intent on respondent’s part. The Committee’s evidence fails to persuade me that Respondent engaged in intentional or purposeful dishonesty in making the erasures or in testifying about them. I also find that he did not . . . act with intentional dishonesty or venal intent during the Committee’s investigation even though he failed to exhibit the candor, cooperation and diligence a member of the Bar owes to the disciplinary process.” In mitigation, respondent averred that he: has been practicing law for 46 of his 73 years, including four years of service as a Civil Court Judge, with an unblemished disciplinary record; served as a lieutenant in the United States Air Force and 12 years on committees of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York; co-authored an American Bar Association model jury charge for trade secret cases; and successfully represented the League of Women Voters, pro bono, in seeking the reapportionment of the Westchester County Council. Respondent also produced character witnesses who testified that he consistently exercised professional judgment and conformed to high standards of practice. A Hearing Panel heard oral argument on February 3, 2003, at which time the Committee argued that the Referee’s report should be modified to sustain counts one and two, and that a six-month suspension be imposed in light of respondent’s conduct and his failure to cooperate with the Committee. Respondent, arguing that his conduct was an aberration in an otherwise laudable career, urged a private reprimand. In a report dated March 10, 2003, the Hearing Panel confirmed the Referee’s report and recommendation in its entirety. The Hearing Panel observed, inter alia, that respondent’s conduct constituted a serious lapse in judgment, although they agreed with the Referee that the evidence did not support the conclusion that he acted with a dishonest or deceitful purpose; and that respondent’s lack of candor with the Committee and persistent lack of cooperation with their requests amounted to conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice, although he appeared to be acting under the “misguided hope that the problem would go away.” In rejecting both respondent’s and the Committee’s recommendations for sanction, the Hearing Panel opined that although “several factors weigh against the issuance of a private reprimand” there are, on the other hand, “significant” mitigating factors which weigh against imposing a six-month suspension as too severe. The Hearing Panel, therefore, recommended public censure. The Committee, by petition dated May 20, 2003, now seeks an order confirming the findings of fact, conclusion of law and recommendations of public censure set forth in the report of the Hearing Panel. Initially, we find that in view of the stipulated facts and the evidence presented, the Hearing Panel’s findings of fact and conclusions of law, in which counts three through six were sustained, should be confirmed. Moreover, while respondent’s irresponsible and unprofessional conduct was aggravated by his failure to cooperate with the Committee, there was no finding, by either the Referee or the Hearing Panel, of venal intent which, coupled with significant factors in mitigation, including the aberrational nature of the incident, the lack of any disciplinary history and respondent’s prior good reputation, leads us to conclude that the recommended sanction of public censure is appropriate. Accordingly, the Committee’s petition should be granted to the extent of confirming the findings of fact and conclusions of law of the Hearing Panel and the recommended sanction of public censure. Nardelli, J.P, Rosenberger, Friedman, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ., concur. Respondent publicly censured.
OPINION OF THE COURT Spain, J. Petitioner Nextel Partners, Inc., a telephone corporation licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (hereinafter FCC) and the New York State Public Service Commission (hereinafter PSC), provides nationwide wireless cellular telephone service to its subscribers using a network of telecommunication, facilities comprised of elevated antennae and related equipment to transmit low power radio signals. Petitioner Independent Wireless One Corporation (hereinafter IWO) is a network manager for national wireless telecommunications businesses. On April 6, 2001, Nextel applied to respondent Town Board of the Town of Fort Ann for a use variance to construct and operate a 110-foot telecommunication facility consisting of a wood laminate monopole disguised as a pine tree with a nine-inch single cylinder antenna on top (with an 18-inch diameter). The application sought to erect the monopole on leased land on Pilot Knob Road in the Town of Fort Ann, Washington County. The leased property is in the Lake George Park, situated in what is known as the Pilot Knob Area, designated as a residential area pursuant to the “Ordinance Establishing the Pilot Knob Residential Area in the Lake George Tract” (hereinafter the ordinance), enacted in 1965 by the Town Board pursuant to authority conferred by General Municipal Law § 280. The ordinance prohibits the use of real property in the Pilot Knob Area for “any industrial or commercial purpose,” but vests power in the Town Board to grant variances to authorize necessary or desirable uses of the land. In its application, at the first public hearing on June 16, 2001 and over the course of the next seven months, Nextel submitted evidence demonstrating that substantial coverage gaps and inadequacies exist in respondent Town of Fort Ann and surrounding areas, including the Pilot Knob Area and points south, on the western and northern shores of Lake George and on the lake itself. Nextel produced radio frequency propagation map studies and other evidence demonstrating that due to the mountainous topography, no existing structure in the Town could be used. Its examination of 18 alternate sites in the region which were technologically feasible revealed that the proposed site was the only available one that could unilaterally eliminate the most significant existing coverage gaps and improve inadequacies in existing service to the areas. Nextel submitted simulated photographs and other evidence to support its position that, due to its disguised design and location in a heavily wooded area surrounded by 95-foot trees, the proposed facility would be relatively inconspicuous with the top visible from parts of the lake and trails or nearby state land, but not from the surrounding residential area. Also proffered was an extensive report from a real estate consultant concluding, based upon sufficiently comparable facilities, that the proposal would have little, if any, measurable affect on surrounding property values. Support for the proposal came from residents of the region, including cell users such as area physicians and volunteer firefighters. Area residents who vigorously oppose the proposed facility submitted evidence and expert opinions and raised concerns about the proposal’s potential adverse affect on property values, aesthetics and the residential character of Pilot Knob, and challenged the necessity of locating the facility at this site rather than at alternate sites. Subsequent to the hearing, IWO—asserting that it had. no service in the service area targeted in Nextel’s proposal and needed to co-locate on Nextel’s proposed facility—contacted Nextel seeking co-applicant status. By letter dated August 13, 2001, Nextel requested that the Town Board allow it to amend its application to include IWO as a co-applicant. In January 2002, the Town Board notified Nextel that it would not permit Nextel to amend its application to include IWO because the request was made after the hearing, that it constituted “a material change in the underlying application” and it was an attempt to avoid the Town’s moratorium on telecommunication facilities adopted by the Town Board in September 2001. At a February 20, 2002 Town Board meeting, the Town Supervisor read a statement into the record denying Nextel’s request for a use variance, finding adequate coverage exists in the Town and that Nextel had not demonstrated that significant gaps exist in the Town that would be corrected or improved by the proposed facility. Also cited was the Town Board’s conclusion, crediting the opinions of the residents’ experts, that the facility would present a visual obstruction and nuisance, would be out of harmony with the area and reduce property values, and that alternate sites outside of the Town were not adequately pursued. After Nextel and IWO commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding against the Town, the Town Board and the Town’s building inspector (hereinafter collectively referred to as the town respondents) challenging the denial of the use variance as, among other things, irrational, arbitrary and capricious and violative of the federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 (see 47 USC § 151 et seq.; § 332) (hereinafter federal TCA), the Town Board on March 11, 2002 unanimously adopted a written resolution denying the use variance. Petitioners filed an amended verified petition, additionally challenging the resolution and, after the town respondents filed their answer with the administrative record, petitioners moved to strike certain documents from the record and a motion to intervene by several town residents (hereinafter collectively referred to as resident respondents) was granted. Supreme Court partially granted petitioners’ motion to strike portions of the record, granted the petition and annulled the Town Board’s determination, finding Nextel had established its entitlement to construct the facility under the public utility exception set forth in Matter of Cellular Tel. Co. v Rosenberg (82 NY2d 364 [1993]). The court directed the town respondents to issue to petitioners the necessary permits and approvals. Initially, we cannot agree with the contentions raised on respondents’ appeals. There is no question that petitioners are public utilities whose entitlement to a use variance is governed by the “public utility” exception articulated by the Court of Appeals (see Matter of Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y. v Hoffman, 43 NY2d 598, 611 [1978]), later held applicable to the siting and modification of all public utility facilities, including cellular telephone companies in Matter of Cellular Tel. Co. v Rosenberg (supra at 371-372; see Mason v Clifton Park Water Auth., 302 AD2d 818 [2003]; Matter of SBA, Inc. v Schwarting, 299 AD2d 940 [2002]; Matter of Lloyd v Town of Greece Zoning Bd. of Appeals, 292 AD2d 818 [2002], lv dismissed and denied 98 NY2d 691 [2002]; Matter of Farrell v Johnson, 266 AD2d 873 [1999]). We are unpersuaded by their claims that Rosenberg is inapplicable due to asserted changes in the wireless telecommunications industry since Rosenberg was decided, such as decreased regulation and increased competition. Rather, the relevance of such changes should be examined on a case-by-case basis with regard to a particular proposal, as the industry changes claimed do not undermine the continuing viability of the rationale underlying the public utility exception or its applicability to cellular telephone service, which continues to be regulated by the FCC and the PSC. Next, we find that the federal TCA did not nullify New York’s common-law public utility exception. Rather, the federal TCA merely placed limits on state and local government authority to deny construction of wireless telecommunication facilities— such as proscribing discrimination among functionally equivalent providers or prohibitions against wireless services (see 47 USC § 332 [c] [7] [B])—and expressly preserved state and local authority over “decisions regarding the placement, construction, and modification of personal wireless service facilities” (47 USC § 332 [c] [7] [A]; see Sprint Spectrum v Willoth, 176 F3d 630, 637-639 n 1 [2d Cir 1999]; Cellular Tel. Co. v Town of Oyster Bay, 166 F3d 490, 492-494 [2d Cir 1999]; see also 1 Salkin, New York Zoning Law and Practice ch 12). Thus, Nextel’s application should be judged by the reduced standard for use varianees articulated in Consolidated Edison and Rosenberg for applications by public utilities. We also reject the apparently novel claim that the public utility exception does not apply here on the premise that the ordinance was passed pursuant to state law and, as such, does not constitute a traditional zoning ordinance which must accommodate the needs of public utilities. While the ordinance was enacted by the Town Board under the authority of General Municipal Law § 280—designed to protect the Lake George Park—and assertedly no other zoning ordinance governing general land use has been enacted in the Town, we find that the ordinance, for this purpose, is indistinguishable from the type of local zoning to which the public utility exception for variances applies (see Town Law § 261). Additionally, we interpret the ordinance as creating a residentially zoned district in which commercial uses such as the proposed facility are excluded except upon issuance of a use variance. Turning to the merits of Nextel’s application, we find that it demonstrated that the construction of a facility on the proposed site is necessary to provide safe and adequate service and that it will eliminate substantial aspects of the existing gaps in cellular service, improve transmission and reception of existing service on Lake George and in the surrounding region, and provide service in places where no wireless service is currently available (see Matter of Cellular Tel. Co. v Rosenberg, 82 NY2d 364, 372 [1993], supra, citing Matter of Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y.v Hoffman, 43 NY2d 598, 611 [1978], supra; Sprint Spectrum v Zoning Bd. of Appeals of Town of Guilderland, 173 Misc 2d 874, 877-878 [1997]). Nextel’s evidence amply established compelling reasons—related to technology, economics, efficiency and other factors—to justify the position that it is preferable and more feasible to use this single site than multiple alternate sites (see id.), that the intrusion on the community is genuinely “minimal” (Matter of Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y. v Hoffman, supra at 611), and that it will have a “negligible impact on the surrounding neighborhood” (Matter of Cellular Tel. Co. v Rosenberg, supra at 373; see Sprint Spectrum v Zoning Bd. of Appeals of Town of Guilderland, supra at 877-878). As Nextel has made the requisite showing to warrant the approval of its variance request, we conclude that the Town Board’s denial of the application was arbitrary and not rational (see Matter of Sasso v Osgood, 86 NY2d 374, 384 n 2 [1995]; Matter of Cellular Tel. Co. v Rosenberg, supra at 373) and was not supported by substantial evidence in the record (see 47 USC § 332 [c] [7] [B] [iii]; see also Cellular Tel. Co. v Town of Oyster Bay, 166 F3d 490, 493-494 [1999], supra). A review of the Town Board’s written resolution reflects that it did not adhere to the reduced showing required of a public utility to obtain a use variance (see Matter of Cellular Tel. Co. v Rosenberg, supra). Moreover, the Town Board relied to a great extent on conclusory or unsubstantiated expert opinion to challenge Nextel’s evidence which had documented, inter alia, coverage gaps, the necessity for this site and its ability to eliminate gaps and improve service, and the lack of available, feasible alternatives. The opposing proof also failed to provide objective or documentary evidence sufficient to undermine Nextel’s compelling proof. While the resident respondents’ experts raised many apparently valid issues and understandable concerns, their opinions (and criticisms of Nextel’s proof) did not provide a rational basis for the Town Board’s denial of the requested variance. By way of example, the opinions of the resident respondents’ engineers regarding the existence of coverage gaps and the availability and feasability of alternate sites were on their face speculative and not sufficiently supported by objective evidence. We further conclude that, on the proof presented, the denial of the request to add IWO as a co-applicant was irrational. Since “[a] board’s determination denying a variance will be sustained only if it has a rational basis and is supported by the record” (Matter of Cellular Tel. Co. v Rosenberg, supra at 373, citing Matter of Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y. v Hoffman, supra at 608), the Town Board’s determination here was properly annulled by Supreme Court. Furthermore, we discern no basis upon which to disturb that portion of Supreme Court’s judgment, explained in its written decision, granting most of petitioners’ motion to strike certain documents from the administrative record certified and submitted by the town respondents (see CPLR 7804 [e]). The stricken documents were either not directly or sufficiently relevant to the instant variance application, not produced by the town respondents for petitioners during the administrative proceeding despite proper requests, or not shown to have been relied upon by the Town Board. Finally, in light of the foregoing, little discussion is warranted regarding Nextel’s cross appeal addressed to that portion of Supreme Court’s decision declining to find that the Town Board violated the Open Meetings Law (Public Officers Law art 7). While the record of the public hearings contains support for the conclusion that some aspects of the Town Board’s proceedings on this request were improperly conducted in private in violation of the Open Meetings Law, no resulting prejudice is shown and we find unwarranted any award of counsel fees or costs (see Public Officers Law § 107 [2]; cf. Matter of Gordon v Village of Monticello, 87 NY2d 124, 126-128 [1995]). Mercure, J.P, Carpinello, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs. . For example, evidence that a particular area is already adequately served by several wireless providers may be a significant factor in evaluating a claim of necessity for a particular proposed facility (see Sprint Spectrum v Willoth, 176 F3d 630, 643 [2d Cir 1999]). . Unlike Supreme Court, we find it appropriate and necessary to consider the Town Board’s written resolution, both because the federal TCA requires that the denial be “in writing” (47 USC § 332 [c] [7] [B] [iii]) and because petitioners amended their petition, thereby addressing and challenging the resolution.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Edward Lehner, J.), entered October 5, 2001, which denied appellants’ motion to dismiss respondent’s CPLR article 78 petition and granted the petition annulling a determination of the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal (DHCR), unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, the motion granted, the petition denied and the proceeding dismissed. Petitioner became a tenant of an apartment on West 13th Street in Manhattan in August 1976. The rent he was initially charged by 345 Estates Co., his landlord at the time, was $185 per month. Eight years later, on March 30, 1984, petitioner filed with the Conciliation and Appeals Board (CAB)—the predecessor to the respondent DHCR—a fair market rent appeal (FMRA), challenging the initial rent set by 345 Estates and used as the basis for subsequent rent increases by his succeeding landlords. Petitioner also filed a rent overcharge complaint. Whether petitioner’s rent challenges should have been treated by DHCR as an FMRA or an overcharge claim lies at the heart of this case, and this appeal culminates the tortured road petitioner, his successive landlords, and the DHCR have traveled the past 19 years in resolving that question. Specifically, this appeal brings up for review an order of the Supreme Court which annulled a revised determination by DHCR that petitioner’s complaints should be treated as an FMRA rather than an overcharge complaint, as it previously had done. Because DHCR’s determination was rational and consistent with applicable law, we reverse the decision of the IAS court and dismiss the petition. A brief review of the relevant rent stabilization law is necessary to understand the twists and turns of the present case and gives context to our decision. In 1974, following an experiment in residential apartment vacancy decontrol in New York City, the Legislature enacted the Emergency Tenant Protection Act of 1974 (L 1974, ch 576, § 4, as amended [ETPA]; McKinney’s Uncons Laws of NY §§ 8621-8634), which transferred apartments that had been subject to rent control to the rent stabilization system as they became vacant (ETPA § 5; Uncons Laws § 8625). The Omnibus Housing Act (OHA), enacted in 1983 and made effective April 1, 1984, amended the ETPA to require owners to file rent-stabilization registration statements with DHCR as their previously rent-controlled apartments became vacant. The rent-stabilization registration statements, unlike the former “Landlord’s Report of Statutory Decontrol,” known as form R-42, are periodic statements that disclose the amount of the rent charged for the subject apartments. Under the Rent Stabilization Law of 1969 (RSL), initial rents for decontrolled apartments are set by the owners and registered with the DHCR (RSL [Administrative Code of City of NY] § 26-512 [b]). Subsequent lawful increases are then determined in accordance with guidelines established by the Rent Guidelines Board (Rent Stabilization Code [RSC] [9 NYCRR] § 2521.1 [a] [1]; § 2522.3 [e]). The initial stabilized rent is thus of crucial importance because it establishes the base on which all subsequent lawful stabilized rents are determined. To protect against rent-gouging by landlords and to insure that stabilized rents do not exceed fair-market levels, the apartment’s initial decontrolled rent is made subject to the tenant’s right to challenge that rent in an FMRA (RSL § 26-512 [b]). The Rent Stabilization Code requires the landlord, upon entry of an apartment into the rent stabilization system, to serve the first stabilized tenant with a notice of initial regulated rent—referred to as a “DC-1” or “DC-2” notice—which advises the tenant of the initial stabilized rent registered with DHCR and of his or her right to challenge that rent by filing an FMRA (RSC §§ 2522.3, 2523.1). The rent-stabilized tenant has 90 days from the service of the DC-1 or DC-2 notice to challenge the initial rent through an FMRA (RSC § 2523.1). If the tenant who has been properly served with a DC-1 or DC-2 notice fails to file an FMRA within the 90-day period, the rent stated in the initial rent stabilization registration statement is established as the initial, lawful stabilized rent upon which all subsequent increases are based. However, if a landlord fails to serve a DC-1 or DC-2 notice on the first rent-stabilized tenant, the right to challenge the initial stabilized rent passes to subsequent tenants until the initial, lawful (fair market) stabilized rent is ultimately established by DHCR (RSC § 2522.3; Matter of McKenzie v Mirabal, 155 AD2d 194 [1990]; Matter of Weinreb Mgt. v State Div. of Hous. & Community Renewal, 231 AD2d 474 [1996]). Such rents are determined by DHCR based upon a formula that includes consideration of the last controlled rent as well as evidence of rents charged for comparable units in the same building or neighborhood or, lacking such evidence, upon DHCR’s calculations using guidelines adopted by the Rent Guidelines Board (RSC § 2522.6). While FMRAs filed after the April 1, 1984 effective date of the OHA are subject to a four-year statute of limitations and a four-year rental history review (RSL § 26-516; RSC § 2522.3; CPLR 213-a), FMRAs filed before that date are not subject to such constraints and may reach back indefinitely to when the apartment first became decontrolled (see e.g. Matter of Mengoni v New York State Div. of Hous. & Community Renewal, 97 NY2d 630 [2001]). Once the initial legal stabilized rent is established, either through DHCR’s consideration of an FMRA or by a failure of the rent-stabilized tenant who has been properly served with a DC-1 or DC-2 notice to file a timely challenge to the rent stated in the landlord’s initial rent stabilization registration statement, a tenant’s challenge to his or her rent is treated as an overcharge complaint. An overcharge complaint challenges the rent charged by the landlord as being in excess of the legal regulated rent, i.e., the initial stabilized rent, plus authorized percentage increases (see RSC § 2520.6 [e]; § 2526.1 [a] [3] [i]; Scherer, Residential Landlord-Tenant Law in New York § 4:259 [West 2003]). If it is determined that the landlord has overcharged the tenant, the tenant is entitled to an award of treble damages and attorneys’ fees unless the landlord is able to prove that the overcharge was not willful (RSC § 2526.1 [a] [1]). No such awards are available in an FMRA proceeding (RSC § 2526.1 [g]; see also Mendelson v Empire Assoc. Realty Co. Assn., 278 AD2d 40, 41 [2000]). Where the landlord is unable to provide proof that a DC-1 or DC-2 notice was properly served on the initial stabilized tenant or any subsequent tenants, DHCR’s announced policy— approved by this Court—has been to treat a tenant’s rent claim as an FMRA rather than an overcharge complaint (see e.g. Matter of Powers Assoc. v New York State Div. of Hous. & Community Renewal, 229 AD2d 349 [1996], lv denied 89 NY2d 808 [1997]; Matter of McKenzie v Mirabal, 155 AD2d 194, 201 [1990]). Consistent with that policy, DHCR instructed petitioner’s landlord in a June 6, 1989 notice that a tenant of a vacancy-decontrolled apartment was entitled to file an FMRA at any time if “the owner never served an Initial Regulated Rent Notice (DC-1 or DC-2) to the first tenant or approprihte subsequent tenant who moved into the apartment after decontrol,” and that petitioner’s rent challenges would be treated as an FMRA “[i]f you cannot provide Form DC-1 [or] DC-2 . . . and proof of service to the first or subsequent rent stabilized tenant.” The notice went on to state that “[i]f the tenant is ineligible to file a Fair Market Rent Appeal as provided by law, DHCR will process the case as a rent overcharge complaint.” When petitioner moved into apartment number 2 in August 1976, the owner of the building was 345 Estates Co. Petitioner was the second rent-stabilized tenant of the apartment, the first such tenant being Ann Leong, who had apparently moved into the apartment in August 1974, after the prior rent-controlled tenant had vacated it, and moved out two years later, to be succeeded by petitioner. About midway through petitioner’s initial two-year lease, the building was sold to Time Equities, Inc. Petitioner continued his tenancy pursuant to renewal leases with Time Equities, which remained his landlord until appellant Seventh FGP Inc. took over that role on or about October 1, 1990. On March 30, 1984, petitioner joined approximately 30,000 other New York City rent-stabilized tenants in filing rent challenges before the time limitations established by the OHA took effect on April 1, 1984 (see generally Matter of Lavanant v State Div. of Hous. & Community Renewal, 148 AD2d 185, 192 [1989]). Petitioner, like many other tenants, filed both an FMRA and an overcharge complaint. The record demonstrates that Time Equities responded relatively promptly to DHCR’s requests for rent history documents. Time Equities reported that it was unable to locate any documents showing that its predecessor had served a DC-1 or DC-2 notice on Ms. Leong. Nor was it able to supply a copy of Ms. Leong’s lease or any record of what rent she was charged. However, Time Equities did provide documents, which, together, supplied more than sufficient information to enable DHCR to determine the initial legal stabilized rent for petitioner’s apartment. Those documents included, among other things, a New York City Office of Rent Control order reflecting the last rent-controlled maximum base rent for petitioner’s apartment as well as for all the other apartments in the building, a CAB opinion setting the initial legal regulated rent for a comparable two-room apartment in petitioner’s building, as well as the rent histories of all the apartments in the building beginning in 1976. Although DHCR’s criteria for treating petitioner’s rent challenges as an FMRA were plainly met and although Time Equities had provided at least sufficient information for DHCR to determine a lawful initial stabilized rent for petitioner’s apartment, the District Rent Administrator (DRA) issued a decision in January 1990, which dismissed petitioner’s FMRA and sustained his overcharge complaint. Without any apparent basis for doing so, the DRA’s decision established petitioner’s initial $185 per month rent as the initial stabilized rent and, further, determined that Time Equities had collected $3,000.87 in rent overcharges, albeit not willfully. Time Equities immediately credited petitioner with the overcharge amount. Dissatisfied with the DRA’s decision, petitioner filed a petition for administrative review (PAR), in which he argued, among other things, that the decision improperly failed to establish the proper initial stabilized rent and absolved the landlord from having to prove that a DC-1 or DC-2 notice had been served on the initial stabilized tenant, the absence of which entitled him to pursue an FMRA. Petitioner also claimed that he was entitled to treble damages, which, as previously noted, are not available in FMRA challenges. In an order dated November 14, 1997, the DHCR, continuing to treat petitioner’s claims as an overcharge complaint, determined that the DRA had incorrectly calculated the initial stabilized rent and that petitioner should receive treble damages because the landlord had not provided a rental history for the apartment—apparently ignoring or overlooking the documents Time Equities had previously submitted to the agency. The November 1997 order established the initial stabilized rent for the apartment at $163.72. Pursuant to DHCR regulations then in effect, the order also froze the allowable rent at $163.72 for the 15-year period beginning with the start of petitioner’s tenancy on August 1, 1976 through July 31, 1991. Using the recalculated rent and rent freeze, DHCR awarded petitioner $32,838.24 in treble overcharge damages. By this time, appellant, Seventh FGR had succeeded as petitioner’s landlord. Seventh FGP brought an article 78 petition against the DHCR, challenging the November 1997 order. Petitioner was not named as a party, but he did receive notice that the article 78 proceeding had been filed and did not attempt to intervene. Supreme Court upheld DHCR’s decision, and Seventh FGP appealed to this Court. While that appeal was pending, DHCR concluded, upon review of the record, that petitioner’s rent challenges should have been treated as an FMRA, rather than as an overcharge complaint, given the absence of evidence that the required DC-1 or DC-2 notice of initial regulated rent had ever been served on the initial rent-stabilized tenant or on petitioner. In addition, DHCR determined that the rent freeze it had imposed might be impermissible under this Court’s decision in Matter of Lukin v New York State Div. of Hous. & Community Renewal (264 AD2d 341 [1999] [holding that such freezes are inequitable when imposed as a result of DHCR’s delay in processing rent challenges]). DHCR sought and obtained Seventh FGP’s assurance that it would not seek to collect from petitioner any rental arrears that might be found to exist if the case was reprocessed as an FMRA. DHCR and Seventh FGP thereafter entered into a stipulation vacating the November 1997 DHCR order, withdrawing the appeal then pending in this Court, and remanding the case to the DHCR for further processing, with a new final decision to be issued by DHCR by August 30, 2000. This Court thereafter permitted the appeal to be withdrawn “in accordance with the . . . stipulation.” In a May 18, 2000 decision on remand, the DHCR noted that, because there was no proof that the initial rent-stabilized tenant had ever been served with the required DC-1 or DC-2 notice, the initial legal stabilized rent had to be determined. Using the documents, which Time Equities had previously provided in response to petitioner’s 1984 rent challenges, DHCR calculated the initial fair-market rent for petitioner’s apartment to be $156.10 (lower than that set in the prior agency determinations). In addition, DHCR declined to impose any rent freeze, applied the percentage rent increases that had been allowed since the apartment became stabilized, and calculated the amount of refund due to petitioner to be $8,622.78, less the $3,000.87 previously credited to petitioner by Time Equities. Because petitioner’s challenge was treated on remand to the DHCR as an FMRA, petitioner was not awarded treble damages. Deprived of the benefit of the rent freeze and the treble damages award provided in DHCR’s November 1997 order, petitioner filed the instant article 78 proceeding, challenging DHCR’s May 2000 order. Reversing his prior insistence that his rent chailenge must be treated as an FMRA, petitioner claimed in the instant petition that there is no basis for treating his rent claims as anything other than an overcharge complaint. In addition, petitioner claims that DHCR was foreclosed from reconsidering the matter once Supreme Court had upheld the November 1997 order; that DHCR was estopped by the passage of time from reversing its prior decision; that his due process rights were violated because DHCR did not provide prior notice of its decision to enter into a stipulation with Seventh FGP to vacate the November 1997 order and to reconsider its previous determinations, and because DHCR did not provide him with an additional opportunity to be heard in the remand proceedings. Supreme Court granted the petition, holding that if the initial landlord had served the required DC-1 or DC-2 notice, then DHCR would be required to treat petitioner’s rent challenges as an overcharge complaint, and that DHCR’s decision on remand was arbitrary because it created the “anomaly of a detriment to the tenant and a benefit to the landlord because a prior owner failed to comply with the law.” DHCR’s and Seventh FGP’s appeal of that judgment is what is presently before this Court. Supreme Court exceeded its authority in determining that DHCR’s decision on remand was inequitable. A court’s power to review an agency decision is limited to determining whether the decision was rational (Matter of Pell v Board of Educ., 34 NY2d 222, 230 [1974]). If the agency’s decision is rational, “it must be upheld, even though the court, if viewing the case in the first instance, might have reached a different conclusion” (Matter of West Vil. Assoc. v Division of Hous. & Community Renewal, 277 AD2d 111, 112 [2000]). DHCR’s May 2000 decision is clearly rational and in conformance with its own announced polices to treat a tenant’s rent complaint as an FMRA where there is no proof that the initial stabilized tenant was served with a DC-1 or DC-2 notice. Indeed, DHCR’s May 2000 order stands in refreshing contrast to the irrationality of its November 1997 order, which violated DHCR’s own policies, determined that petitioner’s landlords had willfully overcharged petitioner because they had failed to provide rental history documents when such documents sat—ignored—in DHCR’s files, and froze petitioner’s rent at 1976 levels for 15 years, while petitioner’s challenges got mired in administrative delay. Supreme Court’s concern that the DHCR’s May 2000 order creates an anomaly of detriment to the tenant and benefit to the landlord resulting from the initial landlord’s failure to serve a DC-1 or DC-2 notice on petitioner or his predecessor as required by law is misplaced. As an initial matter, the order does not create a detriment to petitioner. To the contrary, it establishes—finally—the initial, fair-market stabilized rent upon which all subsequent increases are to be based and awards petitioner a refund of all amounts collected in excess of those amounts—the very benefit that the law is intended to provide. In addition, the law is not intended to generate “benefits” of inequitable windfalls for tenants in the form of unauthorized treble damages or onerous rent freezes during protracted periods of administrative processing. The DHCR’s reversal of a determination that awarded such unauthorized or inequitable remedies in this case does not create a detriment to petitioner, nor a benefit to the landlord; it simply achieves what the law intends. Petitioner’s contention that DHCR was required to treat his rent challenge as an overcharge complaint rather than as an FMRA, because the landlord neglected to provide records establishing the rent charged to petitioner’s predecessor, fails on the facts, since the record demonstrates that Time Equities provided all the documentation DHCR needed to calculate the initial fair-market rent. There is nothing in the law that requires DHCR to proceed along the path that petitioner would have preferred or that makes its determination in this case arbitrary or capricious. Petitioner’s assertions that DHCR was precluded from reexamining its November 1997 order because it had been upheld by a decision of Supreme Court ignores the effect of this Court’s order approving the stipulation between DHCR and Seventh FGP. While it is true that a judgment implementing an administrative agency’s order may not be collaterally attacked by the agency’s subsequent modification of that order (see e.g. Matter of Laub v New York State Div. of Hous. & Community Renewal, 176 AD2d 560 [1991]; Barnert v 41 Fifth Ave. Assoc., 158 AD2d 289 [1990]), the IAS court’s judgment in this case upholding DHCR’s November 1997 determination was the subject of an appeal to this Court, not of a collateral attack by DHCR. That appeal was disposed of by this Court’s order approving and effectuating the stipulation between DHCR and Seventh FGI] which, by its terms, vacated DHCR’s November 1997 determination—and by necessity, the Supreme Court’s affirmance of that determination—and remanded the matter to DHCR for further proceedings. This Court plainly has authority to vacate an agency decision—even one that has been upheld by Supreme Court—and to remand the matter to the agency for further consideration. So, too, does this Court have the authority to approve a stipulation between the parties to an appeal which has the same effect. While approval of such a stipulation does not constitute a judicial decision on the merits of the original agency decision (see e.g. Matter of 251 W. 92nd Corp. v New York State Div. of Hous. & Community Renewal, 227 AD2d 333 [1996]), it does operate to vacate that decision. Such judicial authority is not circumscribed by ESC § 2529.9, which limits DHCR’s authority to modify or revoke an agency order to the to the period “prior to the date that a proceeding for judicial review has been commenced in the Supreme Court.” Petitioner’s related contention that the IAS court’s previous affirmance of DHCR’s November 1997 decision acts as res judicata to preclude DHCR from reexamining that order is equally without merit (see e.g. Di Donato v Rosenberg, 256 NY 412, 418- [1931]; see also A. Colish, Inc. v Abramson, 178 AD2d 252 [1991]). Petitioner’s additional assertion that his rights were somehow violated because he was not joined as a party in the article 78 proceeding brought by Seventh FGP is also unavailing. He was given notice of the proceeding and could have, but chose not to, intervene pursuant to CPLR 1012 or 1013. Furthermore, as previously noted, the order of this Court approving the stipulation between DHCR and Seventh FGP did not constitute a decision on the merits as to how petitioner’s rent challenges should be treated, and thus did not implicate petitioner’s due process rights. Accordingly, Supreme Court’s judgment granting petitioner’s article 78 petition and annulling DHCR’s May 2000 order is reversed and the petition is denied. Concur — Buckley, P.J., Rosenberger, Lerner, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
— Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Steven Barrett, J.), rendered March 15, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of murder in the second degree and assault in the second degree, and sentencing him to concurrent terms of 25 years to life and 20 years, respectively, unanimously affirmed. Evidence of a photographic identification was properly admitted to dispel a misleading impression conveyed by the defense (see People v Mahone, 206 AD2d 263 [1994], Iv denied 84 NY2d 869 [1994]). The court minimized any prejudice by delivering a limiting instruction, to which defendant made no exception or request for further instruction. Concur — Buckley, RJ., Tom, Ellerin, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ.
Petition pursuant to CPLR article 78 for a writ of prohibition to prevent the Honorable Herbert I. Altman, as Justice of the Supreme Court, New York County, and Robert M. Morgenthau, as District Attorney of New York County, from continuing with the prosecution of counts 26 through 30 of a New York County indictment, for lack of geographical jurisdiction under CPL 20.40, unanimously denied and the proceeding dismissed, without costs. Petitioners, Sherman Taub, a resident of Queens, and International Mortgage Servicing Company, a New Jersey partnership of which Taub owns a 50% interest, bring this original proceeding to dismiss five counts of offering a false instrument for filing in the first degree (partnership and individual income tax returns), part of a 34-count indictment charging petitioners and others with various offenses relating to a scheme to steal millions of dollars from a not-for-profit adult home in Far Rockaway, New York. Petitioners contend that the courts of New York County lack geographical jurisdiction over those five counts because petitioners do not reside therein, and the tax returns were not sent from or received in that county. The People claim that New York County has geographical jurisdiction pursuant to CPL 20.40 (2) (c), in that, “[e]ven though none of the conduct constituting [the five offenses] may have occurred within [New York County] . . . [s]ueh conduct had, or was likely to have, a particular effect upon such county or a political subdivision or part thereof, and was performed with intent that it would, or with knowledge that it was likely to, have such particular effect therein.” Conduct has a “particular effect” on a county when it “produces consequences which, though not necessarily amounting to a result or element of such offense, have a materially harmful impact upon the governmental processes or community welfare of a particular jurisdiction, or result in the defrauding of persons in such jurisdiction.” (CPL 20.10 [4].) Even though petitioners did not execute their tax returns in New York County or mail them there, New York County is an appropriate venue pursuant to CPL 20.40 (2) (c) (see People v Carney, 166 AD2d 157 [1990]). As respondent Justice Altman noted, the loss of tax revenues suffered by New York City as a result of the charged underreporting of income by petitioners on the subject tax returns had a materially harmful impact upon the governmental processes and community welfare of New York County, the seat of New York City government, including the City treasury and the City Department of Finance, and the location of the agency and bank accounts through which tax monies are processed and remitted to the City. Under such circumstances, the grand jury could also reasonably infer that petitioners filed the tax returns with the intent, or at least the knowledge, that the particular effect was likely to occur in New York County. With respect to petitioners’ contention that the indictment was facially insufficient for failure to specify the particular effect charged, the bill of particulars put petitioners on notice of the accusations against them, and enabled them to prepare a defense (see People v Edwards, 304 AD2d 367 [2003]). Concur—Buckley, EJ., Nardelli, Mazzarelli, Ellerin and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Bertram Katz, J.), entered on or about January 10, 2002, which denied plaintiffs motion for partial summary judgment on the issue of defendant property owner’s liability under Labor Law § 240 (1), granted defendant’s cross motion for summary judgment dismissing plaintiffs causes of action under Labor Law §§ 200, 240 (1) and § 241 (6) and for common-law negligence, and dismissed the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Flaintiff, a welder, alleges that he was injured when, replacing a permanent outside wooden staircase at defendant’s residence with one made of iron, the rotted step he was standing on gave way, causing him to fall through. Flaintiff has no cause of action under Labor Law § 240 (1) because the work did not involve risks related to elevation differentials requiring the furnishing or erection of a safety device (Carrion v Lewmara Realty Corp., 222 AD2d 205 [1995], lv denied 88 NY2d 896 [1996]; compare Foufana v City of New York, 211 AD2d 550, 551 [1995]). The Industrial Code sections that plaintiff invokes to support his cause of action under Labor Law § 241 (6) (12 NYCRR 23-1.25 [d] [welders to be provided with scaffolding where necessary]; 23-1.7 [b] [1] [hazardous openings into which a person may step or fall to be guarded by cover or safety railing]) do not apply to the facts herein, and the causes for common-law negligence and under Labor Law § 200 lack merit because an owner of real property has no responsibility to one hurt through a dangerous condition he has undertaken to fix (see Carrion, 222 AD2d at 206). We have considered plaintiffs other arguments and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, EJ., Tom, Saxe, Sullivan and Rosenberger, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Arlene Silver-man, J.), rendered September 26, 2000, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of attempted burglary in the third degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to a term of IV2 to 3 years, and judgment, same court (William Leibovitz, J.), rendered April 11, 2001, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of attempted burglary in the second degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to a concurrent term of three years, unanimously affirmed. By pleading guilty, defendant forfeited his claim that the court should have granted his motion to dismiss the indictment on the ground that the Feople, in introducing testimony before the grand jury concerning defendant’s statement to the police, failed to elicit exculpatory portions of that statement (People v Hansen, 95 NY2d 227, 230 [2000]). In any event, were we to find that this claim survived defendant’s plea, we would find no impairment of the integrity of the grand jury proceeding (see People v Mitchell, 82 NY2d 509 [1993]). The omitted remarks were insignificant and had little or no exculpatory value. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Order and judgment (one paper), Supreme Court, New York County (Rosalyn Richter, J.), entered September 18, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the brief, annulled so much of a determination of the Division of Housing and Community Renewal (DHCR) that credited intervenorappellant 12th Realty Associates (owner) with an improvement cost increase totaling $14,045, and remanded the matter for further proceedings, unanimously affirmed, without costs. In connection with a rent overcharge proceeding commenced by petitioner in 1992, appellant owner filed a petition for administrative review (PAR) of a District Rent Administrator’s order issued March 1997, culminating in a determination that the proven value of improvements made to petitioner’s dwelling unit was $2,881.66 and that petitioner had been overcharged by $15,345.73 (subsequently reduced to $13,240.05 as the result of a vacancy allowance). In support of the owner’s later PAR challenging the value assigned to its improvements, DHCR accepted the owner’s letter affidavit attesting that the itemized cost of renovation was $19,517 and found, in the determination at bar, that there was no rent overcharge. In view of the owner’s concession in 1996 that it could not “be expected to provide a breakdown of the cost of each item of such a renovation job,” Supreme Court correctly rejected the agency’s receipt of the owner’s 2001 itemized valuation in the absence of supporting documentation, as required by DHCR Policy Statement 90-10 (including canceled checks, invoices, a signed contract or a contractor’s affidavit). In addition, while an administrative agency is not completely foreclosed from receiving additional evidence in the course of review, the proffering party is required to demonstrate good cause, specifically, under rules applicable to DHCR, that the evidence could not have been provided at an earlier stage of the proceedings (Matter of Gilman v New York State Div. of Hous. & Community Renewal, 99 NY2d 144, 150 [2002]). Thus, under the circumstances, the agency’s acceptance of the owner’s letter affidavit was irrational (id.). Concur—Buckley, PJ., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Marcy Kahn, J.), rendered March 27, 2002, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to a term of 5 to 10 years, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was based on legally sufficient evidence and was not against the weight of the evidence. There is no basis for disturbing the jury’s determinations concerning credibility. The evidence, which established, among other things, that defendant invited the undercover buyer to return for more drugs, warranted the conclusion that defendant was a participant in the drug sale (People v Bello, 92 NY2d 523 [1998]). Defendant’s claims concerning the prosecutor’s cross-examination of defendant and summation remarks with respect to the absence of a potential defense witness are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. The record does not support defendant’s assertion that “the court expressly decided the question raised on appeal” (CPL 470.05 [2]). Were we to review these claims, we would find that there was a sufficient foundation for the cross-examination and comments (see People v Tankleff, 84 NY2d 992 [1994]; People v Alston, 225 AD2d 453, 454 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 932 [1996]). Defendant’s remaining contentions are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would reject them. Concur — Buckley, EJ., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Richard Carruthers, J.), rendered on or about September 7, 1999, as amended February 22, 2000, unanimously affirmed. Application by appellant’s counsel to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Saunders, 52 AD2d 833 [1976]). We have reviewed this record and agree with appellant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous points which could be raised on this appeal. Pursuant to Criminal Procedure Law § 460.20, defendant has the right to apply for leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals by making application to the Chief Judge of that Court and by submitting such application to the Clerk of that Court or to a Justice of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of this Department on reasonable notice to the respondent within 30 days after service of a copy of this order, with notice of entry. Denial of the application for permission to appeal by the judge or justice first applied to is final and no new application may thereafter be made to any other judge or justice. Concur— Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Marilyn Shafer, J.), entered July 8, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a cause of action, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Defendant attorney has represented plaintiffs former wife in matrimonial and subsequent related proceedings. In this action, plaintiff alleges that defendant’s conduct in bringing a contempt proceeding against him to enforce support obligations imposed on plaintiff by the judgment of divorce by which he, plaintiff, is bound, was so egregious as to support claims for intentional infliction of severe emotional distress. Plaintiff s allegations are, however, plainly insufficient to state such claims, defendant’s alleged conduct not having been “so outrageous in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency” (Murphy v American Home Prods. Corp., 58 NY2d 293, 303 [1983] [internal quotation marks omitted]). Indeed, defendant’s filing of an order to show cause for contempt against plaintiff for his alleged failure to pay an award of court ordered counsel fees, when viewed in the context of plaintiffs history of recalcitrance in the face of court orders, does not, even remotely, approach the threshold of reprehensibility that must be crossed to render a claim for severe emotional distress viable (see Herlihy v Metropolitan Museum of Art, 214 AD2d 250, 262-263 [1995]; see also Howell v New York Post Co., 81 NY2d 115, 122 [1993]). We have considered plaintiffs remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Joan Sudolnik, J.), rendered May 13, 2002, convicting defendant, after a nonjury trial, of manslaughter in the first degree, and sentencing him to a term of 10 years, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was based on legally sufficient evidence and was not against the weight of the evidence. There is no basis for disturbing the court’s determinations concerning credibility. The evidence, including testimony that defendant punched the victim in the jaw and kicked him multiple times in the chest and face as he was lying helpless on the ground after the codefendant had hit him on the head with a beer bottle, established defendant’s intent to cause serious physical injury and his accessorial liability for the death of the victim (see People v Allah, 71 NY2d 830 [1988]). The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant youthful offender treatment, and we perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Concur—Buckley, P.J, Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Paviola Soto, J.), entered June 20, 2002, which, upon a jury verdict, awarded plaintiff damages, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The trial evidence showed that at 6:50 a.m., on June 22, 1992, plaintiff became stuck in a malodorous, dirty and poorly ventilated elevator in defendant’s building with her two daughters, aged 7 and 9; that the children became upset and complained that they could not breathe; and that after pressing the alarm button and getting no response, plaintiff banged on the elevator walls and screamed for 30 to 40 minutes before getting the attention of a nonresident who happened to be in the lobby. When the nonresident was unable to find a building attendant to assist plaintiff, he, together with plaintiff, pushed the outer elevator door back, and plaintiff passed her daughters to him through the resulting three-foot opening, which was about four feet above the lobby floor, without incident. However, when plaintiff attempted to exit, she was injured. Under these circumstances, we cannot accept defendant’s contention that plaintiffs actions were so extraordinary as to interrupt the causal chain stemming from its negligence and constitute an intervening and superseding cause of her injury (see Kush v City of Buffalo, 59 NY2d 26, 33 [1983]). Rather, the evidence warrants the conclusion that plaintiffs conduct in attempting to extricate herself from the fetid elevator in which she had been trapped without assistance for some 40 minutes was a foreseeable response to the hazardous situation that had developed by reason of defendant’s negligence (see Lynch v Bay Ridge Obstetrical & Gynecological Assoc., 72 NY2d 632, 637 [1988]). We have considered defendant’s remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur — Buckley, EJ., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Orders, Supreme Court, New York County (Eileen Bransten, J.), entered August 27, 2002 and January 9, 2002, which, inter alia, vacated a prior order of the same court and Justice dismissing the complaints in these medical malpractice actions, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Under the particular circumstances presented, in which, inter alia, the defect upon which the dismissals of plaintiffs actions was premised no longer poses a practical impediment to the actions’ prosecution and was without prejudicial consequence to defendants, and in which plaintiff has offered an expert affidavit indicating that her malpractice claims against defendants are viable, the court properly exercised its discretion to permit the actions to be decided on the merits. Concur — Buckley, EJ., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (William C. Donnino, J.), entered January 23, 2003, unanimously affirmed for the reasons stated by Donnino, J., without costs or disbursements. No opinion. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Determination of respondent Acting Commissioner of the Department of Buildings, dated February 28, 2002, which denied petitioner’s application for a master electrician’s license, unanimously confirmed, the petition denied, and the proceeding brought pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, New York County [Louis York, J.], entered November 21, 2002), dismissed, without costs. Respondent Acting Commissioner’s determination that petitioner established only 4V2 years of the requisite 7V2 years of qualifying experience for a master electrician’s license is supported by the record. Petitioner failed to demonstrate that he worked under the supervision of a master electrician, as required by the Electrical Code (Administrative Code of City of NY, tit 27, ch 3, §§ 27-3010, 27-3017; Matter of Amabile v Simins, 51 AD2d 930 [1976]), with the exception of work performed for his most recent employer. In addition, petitioner conceded that he did not pass the university courses he sought to include as qualifying experience. Accordingly, the determination “is supported by facts or reasonable inferences that can be drawn from the record and has a rational basis in the law” (Matter of American Tel. & Tel. Co. v State Tax Commn., 61 NY2d 393, 400 [1984]) and is therefore founded upon substantial evidence (300 Gramatan Ave. Assoc. v State Div. of Human Rights, 45 NY2d 176, 181 [1978]). Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Marcy Friedman, J.), entered on or about June 26, 2003, which denied plaintiffs motion to consolidate this action with one pending in Civil Court, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Even where there are common questions of law or fact, consolidation is properly denied if the actions are at markedly different procedural stages and consolidation would result in undue delay in the resolution of either matter (F & K Supply v Johnson, 197 AD2d 814, 814-815 [1993]; Steuerman v Broughton, 123 AD2d 681 [1986]). The Civil Court action sought to be consolidated has been placed on the trial calendar, whereas this action has barely advanced to the discovery phase. Since consolidation would delay both the resolution of the Civil Court action and trial of the consolidated action, denial of the motion was an appropriate exercise of discretion. We have examined plaintiffs remaining contentions and find them to be unavailing. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Diane Lebedeff, J.), entered November 19, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the brief, denied defendant’s motion pursuant to CFLR 317 and 5015 (a) to vacate a default judgment, unanimously affirmed, with costs. As we recently observed in affirming that part of the appealed order denying defendant’s motion to vacate a default judgment entered under identical circumstances in a related case, “[t]he motion was properly denied upon proof that plaintiff mailed copies of the default judgment with notice of entry to defendant’s officer’s residence more than a year before the motion was made, and defendant’s' failure to rebut the presumption of receipt raised thereby (see Engel v Lichterman, 62 NY2d 943 [1984]). Such proof is particularly compelling here given that the mailings were certified and receipts were signed. It does not avail defendant that its officer represents that neither he nor anyone who lives with him recognizes the signatures on the receipts (cf. id.)” (Lugo v H.B.T. Hous. Co., 309 AD2d 509, 509-510 [2003]). Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Harold Tompkins, J.), entered December 4, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from, granted third-party defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the third-party complaint and all cross claims against it, denied defendant and third-party plaintiff Shorr Electrical Contracting, Inc.’s cross motion for summary judgment upon the third-party complaint on the ground of spoliation of evidence, and denied plaintiffs cross motion to strike the pleadings of defendants and third-party defendant on the ground of spoliation of evidence, or, in the alternative, for leave to serve an amended complaint against third-party defendant, unanimously modified, on the law, to deny third-party defendant’s motion for summary judgment, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Under Workers’ Compensation Law § 11, “permanent and total loss of use” of an arm or hand constitutes “grave injury.” Although the motion court found that plaintiff had not sustained grave injury and on that ground dismissed the third-party complaint against plaintiffs employer, the evidence of record, most notably the affidavit of plaintiffs expert, raises a triable question as to whether plaintiff has in fact permanently lost total use of his left hand and arm, retaining only passive movement (cf. Trimble v Hawker Dayton Corp., 307 AD2d 452 [2003]), thus precluding summary judgment. The third-party complaint may not at this juncture be dismissed on the ground that plaintiffs injury was not grave. Therefore, we now reach the merits of whether third-party defendant’s pleadings should be stricken for spoliation of evidence. We affirm the denial of the “drastic” relief sought (see Tommy Hilfiger, USA v Commonwealth Trucking, 300 AD2d 58, 60 [2002]) on the ground that there is no indication that third-party defendant disposed of crucial evidence (see Riley v ISS Intl. Serv. Sys., 304 AD2d 637, 638 [2003]), much less that it did so other than in the ordinary course of business, or with notice of the evidence’s potential evidentiary value (see Smith v New York City Health & Hosps. Corp., 284 AD2d 121 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 607 [2001]). Accordingly, plaintiffs, in these circumstances, have no cause of action against the third-party defendant for interfering with their right to sue a nonemployer tortfeasor (cf. DiDomenico v C & S Aeromatik Supplies, 252 AD2d 41, 53 [1998]), and leave to amend was properly denied. Sanctions for spoliation by defendant Shorr were properly denied. Prior to this litigation, that defendant had no notice of facts indicating that it might be liable to plaintiffs. As for defendant HRH Construction, plaintiffs were afforded leave to seek a missing documents charge at trial, a sanction appropriately “tailored” to achieve a fair result (see Cohen Bros. Realty v J.J. Rosenberg Elec. Contrs., 265 AD2d 242, 245 [1999], lv dismissed 95 NY2d 791 [2000]). Concur — Andrias, J.P., Saxe, Williams, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (William Wetzel, J.), rendered May 28, 2002, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of enterprise corruption, and sentencing him to a term of 7V2 to 22V2 years, unanimously modified, as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice, to the extent of reducing the sentence to a term of 5 to 15 years, and otherwise affirmed. We find the sentence excessive to the extent indicated. Concur — Andrias, J.E, Saxe, Williams, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Carol Berk-man, J.), rendered July 6, 2000, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of three counts of kidnapping in the first degree, and sentencing him to concurrent terms of 25 years to life, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490 [1987]). Defendant was convicted of kidnapping in the first degree under the theories of intent to compel third persons to pay or deliver ransom (Penal Law § 135.25 [1]) and of restraining the persons abducted for more than 12 hours with intent to inflict physical injury upon them (Penal Law § 135.25 [2] [a]). The evidence, with particular reference to defendant’s tape-recorded conversations and to testimony delineating defendant’s personal role in the assaults on the victims, established both of the specified intents. As to each of the kidnapping counts, the court properly declined to submit the lesser included offense of kidnapping in the second degree because there was no reasonable view of the evidence, viewed most favorably to defendant, that he was guilty of the lesser degree of kidnapping but not the greater. Without resorting to a speculative interpretation of the evidence, there was no basis upon which the jury could find that defendant was guilty of kidnapping, but that he lacked the intent to compel the family of one of the victims to obtain and deliver as ransom a certain quantity of money and drugs that had been stolen from defendant, or that he lacked the intent to, at the very least, cause physical injury to the victims (see People v Negron, 91 NY2d 788 [1998]; People v Vaughn, 305 AD2d 284 [2003]). The court properly exercised its discretion in imposing reasonable limits on defendant’s cross-examination of one of the victims. The precluded inquiries were repetitive and defendant received ample latitude in which to cover the point at issue. Accordingly, there was no impairment of defendant’s right to confront witnesses (see Delaware v Van Arsdall, 475 US 673, 678-679 [1986]). We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Concur— Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Renee White, J.), rendered June 20, 2000, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of attempted robbery in the second degree, and sentencing him, as a persistent violent felony offender, to a term of 12 years to life, unanimously affirmed. The court properly denied defendant’s suppression motion. There is no basis for disturbing the court’s credibility determinations, which are supported by the record (see People v Prochilo, 41 NY2d 759, 761 [1977]). The evidence established that defendant’s girlfriend’s son, who resided in the apartment, consented to the police entry into the apartment in question and that defendant’s girlfriend consented to a search of the entire apartment. The consent given by each of these persons was voluntary and not the product of coercive police conduct (People v Gonzalez, 39 NY2d 122 [1976]). Furthermore, the record also supports the hearing court’s finding that defendant did not establish that he had a privacy interest in his girlfriend’s apartment. The court properly exercised its discretion in summarily denying defendant’s motion to withdraw his guilty plea (see People v Frederick, 45 NY2d 520 [1978]). The record establishes that defendant pleaded guilty knowingly, intelligently and voluntarily and that he received effective assistance of counsel. The court properly adjudicated defendant a persistent violent felony offender. The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s request for a further adjournment of sentencing so that defendant could make additional efforts to obtain the minutes of a prior conviction. In any event, defendant ultimately obtained those minutes in connection with this appeal, and they clearly establish that defendant had no basis for challenging the constitutionality of either of his predicate convictions. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Orders of disposition, Family Court, New York County (Rhoda Cohen, J.), entered on or about October 18, 2000, which, in child protective proceedings pursuant to Family Court Act article 10, upon a fact-finding determination of neglect, placed the subject children with the Commissioner of Social Services for a period of 12 months, unanimously affirmed, without costs. A preponderance of the credible evidence established that appellant neglected his daughter, Keijia H., by failing to provide necessary medical care for her kidney infection (see Family Ct Act § 1012 [f] [i] [A]; see generally Matter of Jessica YY., 258 AD2d 743, 744 [1999]; and see Matter of Brian A., 190 AD2d 530 [1993], lv denied 81 NY2d 710 [1993]). In addition, uncontradicted testimony respecting conditions in appellant’s home, to the effect that bathroom fixtures were missing and that boiling water poured continually from a hole in the wall; that there was an asbestos-like substance exuding from the wall; that the kitchen sink was clogged with cockroaches; and that the apartment was bare of furnishings, eating utensils and drinking glasses, established that appellant failed to provide a safe, sanitary home for the subject children (see Commissioner of Social Servs. [Pedro F.], 212 AD2d 400, 401-402 [1995]). Although appellant makes general mention of a number of gaps in the transcript of the fact-finding hearing, he has not demonstrated specifically how such gaps precluded meaningful appellate review and, thus, has failed to substantiate his claim of denial of due process (see Matter of Commissioner of Social Servs. of City of N.Y. v Remy K.Y., 298 AD2d 261, 262-263 [2002]). Appellant’s challenge to the constitutionality of the assigned counsel system, raised for the first time on appeal, is not preserved for our review and we decline to reach it (see Matter of Tamara Liz H., 300 AD2d 202, 203 [2002]). We note, however, that counsel does not contend that the allegedly inadequate compensation under the system resulted in ineffective representation of appellant in this matter. We have reviewed appellant’s remaining arguments and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Barbara Kapnick, J.), entered January 2, 2003, which granted defendant’s motion for partial summary judgment limiting plaintiff’s damages, if any, to $56,418.12, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The parties contracted for defendant to supply plaintiff with fabric which plaintiff broker then intended to resell to a third party at a profit. Defendant, however, allegedly became unable to perform because the contracted-for fabric was stolen from its warehouse, and this action for breach of contract ensued. On the instant motion, the court properly determined that plaintiff s recovery, if any, should be limited to the amount of its profit from the planned resale of the fabric, i.e., the actual benefit that would have inured to it had the contract been performed. “The damages for which a party may recover for a breach of contract are such as ordinarily and naturally flow from the non-performance. They must be proximate and certain, or capable of certain ascertainment, and not remote, speculative or contingent. It is presumed that the parties contemplate the usual and natural consequences of a breach when the contract is made; and if the contract is made with reference to special circumstances, fixing or affecting the amount of damages, such special circumstances are regarded within the contemplation of the parties, and damages may be assessed accordingly” (Booth v Spuyten Duyvil Rolling Mill Co., 60 NY 487, 492 [1875]). Although plaintiff argues that the intended resale of the fabric was not a special circumstance fixing the amount of damages because defendant at the time it contracted to sell the fabric to plaintiff did not know the price for which the fabric was to be resold, such knowledge was unnecessary. It was only necessary that “the parties [had] such a knowledge of special circumstances, affecting the question of damages, as that it may be fairly inferred that they contemplated a particular rule or standard for estimating them, and entered into the contract upon that basis” (id. at 494). That condition was certainly satisfied here where the parties were indisputably aware at the time of the contract that plaintiff broker was purchasing the fabric for immediate resale. We have considered plaintiffs remaining arguments and find them unavailing. Concur — Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ. [As amended by unpublished order entered Mar. 25, 2004.]
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Steven Barrett, J., at plea and sentence), rendered on or about January 30, 2002, unanimously affirmed. Application by appellant’s counsel to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Saunders, 52 AD2d 833 [1976]). We have reviewed this record and agree with appellant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous points which could be raised on this appeal. Fursuant to Criminal Frocedure Law § 460.20, defendant has the right to apply for leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals by making application to the Chief Judge of that Court and by submitting such application to the Clerk of that Court or to a Justice of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of this Department on reasonable notice to the respondent within 30 days after service of a copy of this order, with notice of entry. Denial of the application for permission to appeal by the judge or justice first applied to is final and no new application may thereafter be made to any other judge or justice. Concur— Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Appeal from order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Lawrence Bernstein, J.), entered August 5, 2002, which denied and dismissed the petition for a writ of habeas corpus, unanimously dismissed as moot, without costs. Petitioner’s challenge to the conduct of preliminary parole revocation hearing is mooted by the final parole revocation determination rendered against him (see People ex rel. Johnson v New York State Div. of Parole, 270 AD2d 137 [2000]; People ex rel. McCummings v DeAngelo, 259 AD2d 794 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 810 [1999]), and the circumstances presented do not warrant addressing the preliminary hearing issues raised under an exception to the mootness doctrine (see Matter of Hearst Corp. v Clyne, 50 NY2d 707, 714-715 [1980]). In any case, petitioner, by knowingly, intelligently and voluntarily waiving his right to a preliminary revocation hearing, effectively waived his right to challenge the complained-of defect in the preliminary hearing proceedings (see e.g. People ex rel. Miller v Walters, 60 NY2d 899 [1983]; People ex rel. Walker v Sullivan, 128 AD2d 572 [1987], lv denied 70 NY2d 613 [1987]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Betty Owen Stinson, J.), entered July 24, 2002, which granted defendants’ motions for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, denied the branch of plaintiffs’ cross motion seeking summary judgment and partially denied the branch of that cross motion seeking dismissal of the counterclaims, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Pursuant to a contract with defendant New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, defendant St. Barnabas Hospital employed plaintiffs as surgical attending physicians to provide surgical and emergency medical services for Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center. When plaintiffs intimated that they would “stop taking call,” that is, decline availability for patient care, defendant hospital terminated their employment. Because plaintiffs were at-will employees, the court properly dismissed their claim for breach of contract or improper termination (see Murphy v American Home Prods. Corp., 58 NY2d 293, 304-305 [1983]). Both the policy manual and employee handbook explicitly disclaim any contractual relationship (see Lobosco v New York Tel. Co./NYNEX, 96 NY2d 312, 316-317 [2001]). Statements regarding plaintiffs’ performance contained in the termination memorandum are protected by the qualified “common interest” privilege (see Liberman v Gelstein, 80 NY2d 429, 437-38 [1992]; Loughry v Lincoln First Bank, 67 NY2d 369, 376 [1986]). Statements made with respect to plaintiff Kazigo in particular are afforded the same qualified privilege since they were made in the context of an employment relationship (see Present v Avon Prods., 253 AD2d 183, 187-188 [1999], lv dismissed 93 NY2d 1032 [1999]). Finally, statements reported in The New York Times constitute nonactionable opinion statements concerning the reasons for plaintiffs’ actions (see Julian v American Bus. Consultants, 2 NY2d 1, 8-9 [1956]; Howard v Alford, 229 AD2d 996, 997 [1996]). Thus, plaintiffs’ defamation claims were properly dismissed (see Dillon v City of New York, 261 AD2d 34, 38-39 [1999]). Setting an initial salary equal to plaintiff Priovolos’s former rate of pay is a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the original discrepancy with the salary of other attendings, an inconsistency that was eliminated by retroactive adjustment (see St. Mary’s Honor Ctr. v Hicks, 509 US 502, 506-507 [1993]). Nor do two instances of alleged ridicule, even if substantiated, comprise a pattern sufficient to establish gender discrimination (see Youth Action Homes v State Div. of Human Rights, 231 AD2d 7, 12 [1997]). We note that plaintiffs Kazigo and Rao did not accept the contracts that they allege to be discriminatory based on their age and were discharged as at-will employees. Thus, plaintiffs’ claims predicated on discrimination were properly dismissed. As to defendants’ counterclaims, we agree that issues of fact as to whether plaintiffs violated their duty of good faith and loyalty preclude summary dismissal of defendants’ causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty (see AM Cosmetics v Solomon, 67 F Supp 2d 312, 320 [1999]; Krause v Gelman, 181 AD2d 424 [1992]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Marilyn Shafer, J.), entered on or about August 5, 2002, which, inter alia, granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The affidavits submitted on the motion to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3211 were properly considered inasmuch as they conclusively established that plaintiff had no cause of action (see Rovello v Orofino Realty Co., 40 NY2d 633, 636 [1976]; Fields v Leeponis, 95 AD2d 822 [1983]) for legal malpractice for defendant law firm’s failure to seek a default judgment against a nonanswering defendant in the underlying medical malpractice action. The affidavits establish that defendant approached two doctors familiar with plaintiffs condition but that neither was willing to testify that plaintiff had been a victim of medical malpractice, and that defendant was consequently unable to file a certificate of merit in good faith. It is also clear that plaintiff has no cause of action against defendant for not more expeditiously deposing the medical malpractice defendants since plaintiffs allegations afford no nonspeculative basis to infer that she sustained damages attributable to the complained-of delay. We have considered plaintiffs remaining arguments and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Paula Omansky, J.), entered February 27, 2003, which granted defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff failed to file a timely notice of claim, which is expressly made a prerequisite to recovery under the parties’ contract and which is subject to strict construction as a matter of public policy (see A.H.A. Gen. Constr. v New York City Hous. Auth., 92 NY2d 20, 33-34 [1998]). Plaintiffs previous letter notice is not designated as a notice of claim and, in any event, fails to meet the requirements of the contract’s notice provision. Even if the notice defect were to be ignored, plaintiff waived any right to sue for delay damages under the contract. Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate intentional wrongdoing, gross negligence or willful misconduct (North Star Contr. Corp. v City of New York, 203 AD2d 214, 215 [1994]), and its claim is tantamount to an allegation of poor contract administration that is subject to the bar of the exculpatory provision (see T.J.D. Constr. Co. v City of New York, 295 AD2d 180 [2002]; S.N. Tannor, Inc. v A.F.C. Enters., 276 AD2d 363, 364 [2000]). Concur— Nardelli, J.P, Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Karla Moskowitz, J.), entered January 6, 2003, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the brief, denied defendants’ motion for partial summary judgment dismissing claims for certain damages sought by plaintiffs, unanimously modified, on the law, to dismiss plaintiffs’ claims for unpaid mechanic’s liens, without prejudice to subsequent claims for indemnification, and to strike their claims for liquidated damages, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Defendants have failed to demonstrate that amounts owed by plaintiffs to their subcontractors are not recoverable. Contrary to defendants’ interpretation, we do not construe plaintiffs’ bill of particulars as representing that they owe no money to any subcontractor. Moreover, the charts relied upon by defendants are far from clear in delineating the extent of plaintiffs’ claims. As to recovery for mechanic’s liens filed by subcontractors, it has not been shown that plaintiffs have paid, or intend to pay, such liens (see Mars Assoc. v New York City Educ. Constr. Fund, 126 AD2d 178, 191 [1987], lv dismissed 70 NY2d 747 [1987]). Thus, these claims should be dismissed without prejudice to subsequent claims predicated upon indemnification (see McDermott v City of New York, 50 NY2d 211, 216 [1980]). Finally, the contract does not unambiguously indicate that the liquidated damages provision was intended to apply to abandonment or termination of the contract, not merely delay in completion (see City of Elmira v Walter, 76 NY2d 912, 914 [1990]) and, therefore, the claims for liquidated damages should be dismissed. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Charles Ramos, J.), entered November 14, 2002, which granted defendants La Interamericana Compañía de Seguros Generales S.A. and Seneca Insurance Company’s motions for renewal of their prior motions for summary judgment and dismissed the complaint as against them, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Appeal from order, same court and Justice, entered March 5, 2003, which denied plaintiff’s motion to reargue, unanimously dismissed, without costs, as taken from a nonappealable order. Plaintiffs own evidence conclusively establishes that the efficient and dominant cause of the destruction of its boiler was the explosion of unconsumed fuel (see Album Realty v American Home Assur. Co., 80 NY2d 1008, 1010-1011 [1992]; Home Ins. Co. v American Ins. Co., 147 AD2d 353, 354 [1989]), an event that is beyond the scope of the coverage afforded by the subject machinery breakdown policy. In its responses to interrogatories, plaintiff stated that water escaped from a burst steam pipe, flashed into steam and temporarily extinguished the burner flames within the boiler, causing fuel to accumulate and to explode when it came in contact with a heat source. Plaintiff s expert offered no evidence to overcome the deposition testimony of two of defendants’ experts as to the cause of the explosion, and his opinion is therefore tantamount to speculation. We have considered plaintiffs remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Louise Gruner Gans, J.), entered October 23, 2002, which awarded plaintiff $26,487.94, bringing up for review orders, same court and Justice, entered October 18, 2001 and September 30, 2002, respectively, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Appeal from the orders entered October 18, 2001 and September 30, 2002 unanimously dismissed, without costs, as subsumed in the appeal from the judgment. Plaintiff was properly granted summary judgment in lieu of complaint in this action on a promissory note. It is settled that “invocation of defenses based on facts extrinsic to an instrument for the payment of money only do not preclude CPLR 3213 consideration” (Judarl, L.L.C. v Cycletech, Inc., 246 AD2d 736, 737 [1998]). Having established defendant’s execution of the note and default in payment, plaintiff made out a prima facie case (Seaman-Andwall Corp. v Wright Mach. Corp., 31 AD2d 136, 137 [1968], affd 29 NY2d 617 [1971]), which defendant has not rebutted. Plaintiff was not required to pursue its claim on the note as a compulsory counterclaim in the action on the underlying real estate contract commenced by defendant and then pending in federal court (Fed Rules Civ Pro rule 13 [a]). Plaintiffs claim on the note rests entirely on defendant’s failure to repay the loan upon maturity, and there is no need to refer to extrinsic facts in dispute in the federal action, such as calculation of net profits under the contract. The two cases therefore lack the requisite logical connection to implicate considerations of fairness and judicial economy so as to warrant resolution of all issues in a single action (Harris v Steinem, 571 F2d 119, 123 [2d Cir 1978]). Concur — Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Rosalyn Richter, J.), rendered November 8, 2000, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of three counts of rape in the first degree, two counts of sodomy in the first degree and three counts of robbery in the first degree, and sentencing him to an aggregate term of 24 years with five years postrelease supervision, unanimously affirmed. We reject defendant’s challenge to the legal sufficiency of the evidence supporting one of the three rape convictions. The evidence was sufficient to permit a rational jury to conclude that defendant engaged in sexual intercourse with the victim by means of forcible compulsion (see Penal Law § 130.00 [8]; People v Coleman, 42 NY2d 500, 505-506 [1977]). Defendant’s contention that the court should have instructed the jury that evidence of guilt with regard to one criminal incident could not be considered evidence of guilt as to the other incidents is unpreserved and we decline to review it in the interest of justice. Defendant’s severance motion and the court’s ruling thereon did not address the issue of jury instructions and did not preserve the claim made on appeal. Were we to review this claim, we would find that the charge as a whole adequately conveyed the correct standards in this regard. Concur — Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Lawrence Tonetti, J.), rendered December 19, 2001, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of burglary in the second degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to a term of six years, unanimously affirmed. The record establishes that defendant knowingly, intelligently and voluntarily waived his right to appeal, including his right to challenge his sentence as harsh and excessive (see People v Moissett, 76 NY2d 909 [1990]). In any event, were we to find the appeal waiver to be invalid, we would perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Concur — Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Marcy Friedman, J), entered May 24, 2002, which, inter alia, upon a jury verdict awarding plaintiff damages of $20 million for past and future pain and suffering and plaintiffs stipulation to a reduction of damages, awarded plaintiff damages in the principal amount of $7,992,084, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The jury’s finding of liability on the various causes of action presented in this products liability action was supported by sufficient evidence and was not against the weight of the evidence (see Cohen v Hallmark Cards, 45 NY2d 493 [1978]; Revill v Boston Post Rd. Dev. Corp., 293 AD2d 138, 142 [2002], appeal dismissed 98 NY2d 725 [2002]). Where the jury finds the defendant liable on multiple grounds, a preponderance of the evidence as to any one of them is sufficient to sustain the verdict (see Kavanaugh v Nussbaum, 71 NY2d 535, 545 n 3 [1988]; Brotman v Biegeleisen, 192 AD2d 410 [1993], lv denied 82 NY2d 654 [1993]). Here, the evidence showing that defendant marketed lab coats made of 65/35% polyester/cotton fabric that had a tendency to melt and fuse to the wearer when exposed to flame, that the coat was sold as a lab coat and burned much more readily than flame-retardant coats and that other companies offered flame-retardant lab coats, and that the coat contained no warnings as to its flammability characteristics, amply established defendant’s liability under the theories of defective design (see Voss v Black & Decker Mfg. Co., 59 NY2d 102 [1983]); negligent testing (see Andujar v Sears Roebuck & Co., 193 AD2d 415 [1993]); failure to warn (see Liriano v Hobart Corp., 92 NY2d 232, 237 [1998]); and breach of warranty (see Denny v Ford Motor Co., 87 NY2d 248, 258-259 [1995]). The jury’s findings that plaintiff was negligent but that her negligence was not a proximate cause of her injury were not irreconcilably inconsistent or against the weight of the evidence since the issues were “not so inextricably interwoven as to make it logically impossible to find negligence without also finding proximate cause” (DeLuca v Bensonhurst Grocery, 303 AD2d 541, 541 [2003] [internal quotation marks omitted]; cf. Lora v City of New York, 305 AD2d 171 [2003]). We have considered defendant’s challenges to various evidentiary rulings and find them unavailing. We find the damages awarded for past and future pain and suffering do not deviate materially from what is reasonable compensation under the circumstances. Concur—Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (George Daniels, J., at hearings; Colleen McMahon, J, at jury trial and sentence), rendered July 8, 1998, convicting defendant of burglary in the first degree (two counts), criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree and criminal mischief in the fourth degree (three counts), and sentencing him, as a second violent felony offender, to two consecutive terms of 15 years, concurrent with concurrent terms of 2x/2 to 5 years and 1 year (three terms), unanimously affirmed. Although certain minutes of jury selection and other preliminary proceedings have been lost, defendant has not established that he is entitled to either reversal of his conviction or a reconstruction hearing, since he has not shown that any appeal-able issue may exist with respect to those proceedings (see People v Glass, 43 NY2d 283, 286 [1977]; People v Fabelo, 211 AD2d 517 [1995], lv denied 85 NY2d 908 [1995]; People v Santiago, 158 AD2d 252 [1990]). The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s mistrial motion based on the prosecutor’s summation comment that the jury owed it to the victims and to themselves to convict defendant, since the court’s curative action at the time of the comment was sufficient to prevent any prejudice (see People v Santiago, 52 NY2d 865 [1981]). The prosecutor’s summation argument concerning the interpretation of certain photographs drew a reasonable inference from the evidence. Defendant’s remaining challenges to the prosecutor’s summation are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to reach these arguments, we would find no basis for reversal (see People v Overlee, 236 AD2d 133 [1997], lv denied 91 NY2d 976 [1998]; People v D Alessandro, 184 AD2d 114, 118-119 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 884 [1993]). Defendant was not deprived of either his right to counsel of his choosing or his right to present a defense when, after defendant chose to retain new counsel in the midst of the suppression hearing, the hearing court refused to permit the substitution unless defendant’s new counsel would complete the hearing without further delay (cf. People v Arroyave, 49 NY2d 264, 271 [1980]). The court had already granted a substantial adjournment for defendant’s prior counsel to seek out any witnesses the defense wished to call, and defendant’s new counsel, after consultation with both defendant and with defendant’s prior counsel, indicated that he was prepared to finish the hearing and did not intend to call any witnesses. The record establishes that defendant was competently represented by both attorneys as the hearing came to its conclusion. The record does not establish that defendant was absent from a bench conference conducted by the hearing court. “Since the jury was not in the courtroom, it would be entirely speculative to conclude that the [bench conference] was conducted in a hushed dialogue out of defendant’s hearing” (People v Gonzalez, 203 AD2d 192 [1994], lv denied 84 NY2d 826 [1994]). In any event, since only legal and administrative matters were discussed at the sidebar at issue, defendant’s presence was not required (see People v Williams, 85 NY2d 945 [1995]; People v Velasco, 77 NY2d 469 [1991]). We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Defendant’s remaining contentions are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would reject them. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Order and judgment (one paper), Supreme Court, New York County (Robert Lippmann, J.), entered July 18, 2002, which denied plaintiff’s application for attorneys’ fees, unanimously affirmed, with costs. In light of the full history of this dispute between plaintiff landlord and various tenants of the residential building in question (see e.g. Solow v Bradley, 273 AD2d 75 [2000]; Solow v Wellner, 205 AD2d 339 [1994], affd 86 NY2d 582 [1995]; Solov ieff Gallery Co. v Langston, 167 AD2d 325 [1990]), and defendant’s decision to pay all claimed rent arrears and forgo his viable claim for a rent abatement, the court properly exercised its discretion in determining that plaintiff was not entitled to attorneys’ fees. Even assuming that plaintiff should be viewed as having substantially prevailed, the imposition of attorneys’ fees would be unfair under the particular circumstances of this case (see Jacreg Realty Corp. v Barnes, 284 AD2d 280 [2001]; Nesbitt v New York City Conciliation & Appeals Bd., 121 Misc 2d 336, 340 [1983]; see also Solow v Wellner, 205 AD2d at 340). We have considered and rejected plaintiffs remaining arguments. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Order and judgment (one paper), Supreme Court, New York County (Helen Freedman, J.), entered September 18, 2002, which, inter alia, declared that defendant State Insurance Fund has no duty to defend or indemnify Elanit Industries, Inc., and order, same court and Justice, entered September 19, 2002, directing entry of judgment, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The motion court correctly determined that, under the circumstances, eve-of-trial notice given to defendant insurer nearly eight months after its insured was properly named as a third-party defendant in the underlying personal injury action was untimely as a matter of law. We reject appellants’ waiver, estoppel and correctable misnomer arguments because, among other reasons, in a letter disclaiming coverage the insurer had previously warned that coverage would be provided only if the actual insured, rather than a related but distinct corporation not insured by defendant, were properly named as a party, and because notice was a condition precedent requiring strict compliance (see White v City of New York, 81 NY2d 955, 957 [1993]). We have considered appellants’ other contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Alice Schlesinger, J.), entered September 19, 2002, dismissing the complaint, brought up for review pursuant to CPLR 5501 (c) by plaintiffs’ appeal from the underlying order, same court and Justice, entered August 2, 2002, granting defendant’s motion pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7), unanimously affirmed, without costs. Appeal from the aforesaid underlying order unanimously dismissed, without costs, as subsumed in the appeal from the judgment. While the circumstances giving rise to this action are tragic and plaintiffs have suffered greatly, the motion court properly concluded that the complaint, which essentially alleges that plaintiffs were negligently prosecuted, fails to state a cognizable claim for relief (see Secard v Department of Social Servs. 204 AD2d 425, 427 [1994]; and see e.g. Jestic v Long Is. Sav. Bank, 81 AD2d 255 [1981]). Because plaintiffs’ injuries resulted from prosecution or the threat of prosecution, plaintiffs “may not recover under broad general principles of negligence” (Secard, 204 AD2d at 427 [internal quotation marks omitted]); instead, their remedy, if any against defendant, was a malicious prosecution suit. Plaintiffs may not circumvent the requirements and short statute of limitations for malicious prosecution by labeling their claims as ones for “negligence” (see e.g. Berger v Lowden, 1997 WL 170823, *2-3, 1997 US Dist LEXIS 4516, *6-7 [SD NY, Apr. 10, 1997]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Karla Moskowitz, J.), entered September 20, 2002, which granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a cause of action, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The terms of plaintiffs’ employment by defendants were set forth in written agreements, which provided that compensation would be paid in consideration of “all services rendered by you” and that plaintiffs were to “devote your entire time, best professional efforts and skills to assist in the building of the asset securitization business.” Plaintiffs’ contention that the transaction for which they seek additional compensation was not part of defendants’ securitization business is contradicted by the documentary evidence. In any event, the contract makes plain that compensation is paid in return for all services rendered by plaintiffs and that bonus payments are “on a discretionary basis” according to individual and departmental operating results. Thus, the contract language is clear and unambiguous, affording no opportunity for the introduction of parol evidence (Agip Petroleum Co. v 666 Fifth Ave. Ltd. Partnership, 297 AD2d 483, 485 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 504 [2002]) and no basis for interpretation or modification by the courts (Greenfield v Philles Records, 98 NY2d 562, 569-570 [2002]; see also R/S Assoc. v New York Job Dev. Auth., 98 NY2d 29, 32 [2002]; W.W.W. Assoc. v Giancontieri, 77 NY2d 157, 162 [1990]). Furthermore, since plaintiffs were contractually obligated to devote their entire efforts to defendants’ business, they could not have been further induced (fraudulently or otherwise) to remain in defendants’ employ (see SAA-A, Inc. v Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., 281 AD2d 201, 203 [2001]). That plaintiffs may have proceeded improvidently in the absence of a clear understanding with respect to the purpose to be served by the disputed transaction or the nature of their compensation does not afford a basis for recovery against their employers (see Charles Hyman, Inc. v Olsen Indus., 227 AD2d 270, 277 [1996]). We have considered plaintiffs’ other contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Judith Gische, J.), entered May 30, 2002, which, inter alia, consolidated a Civil Court action with the pending matrimonial action, and upon consolidation, granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the Civil Court action and to recover costs from plaintiff to the extent of awarding defendant $2,800, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Plaintiff, in his utterly frivolous Civil Court action, sought to hold defendant Rabin, his wife’s matrimonial attorney, liable for advising his wife to use funds in a bank account to which both he and wife were signatories. While a complaint must be fully accorded every favorable inference (Rovello v Orofino Realty Co., 40 NY2d 633, 634 [1976]), it is plain that plaintiffs allegations state no cognizable theory of recovery and that he has no cause of action. In the absence of malice, fraud, collusion or bad faith, defendant was not subject to liability to plaintiff for legal advice given by her to her client (Beatie v DeLong, 164 AD2d 104, 109 [1990]). Accordingly, inasmuch as plaintiff failed to allege facts from which it might be reasonably inferred that defendant attorney acted with the requisite ill will when she gave the complained-of advice, the complaint against her was not viable and was properly dismissed. Plaintiff was properly held accountable for defendant’s costs pursuant to 22 NYCRR 130-1.1 (a). In the circumstances presented, in which the lawsuit was not commenced until five months after both the time when the advice was given and after plaintiff instituted a matrimonial action, the court properly concluded, without a hearing, that plaintiff’s lawsuit was intended to have a chilling effect on counsel’s representation of her client. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (John Byrne, J.), entered on or about October 9, 2002, which granted the motion and cross motion of defendants 1749 Associates and the City of New York, respectively, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously modified, on the law, to the extent of denying defendant City’s cross motion for summary judgment, reinstating the complaint against said defendant and remanding for further proceedings consistent herewith; and granting plaintiffs cross motion to the extent of deeming the complaint amended to assert the date the City received the Big Apple Pothole map, to wit, August 26, 1994, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. It is well settled that Big Apple Pothole maps filed with the New York City Department of Transportation serve as prior written notice to the City of the indicated defective conditions (see Weinreb v City of New York, 193 AD2d 596, 598 [1993]). Plaintiff precisely identified the location of her fall (adjacent to a manhole) and its cause (missing bricks). However, from the testimony concerning the interpretation of the map’s legend and scale, it cannot be determined, as a matter of law, that the map depicts the defective condition and, therefore, whether it constitutes sufficient prior written notice of the hazard (see David v City of New York, 267 AD2d 419, 420 [1999]). In any event, the presence of a manhole cover does not establish a special use so as to obviate notice (see ITT Hartford Ins. Co. v Village of Ossining, 257 AD2d 606, 606-607 [1999]). Likewise, even if the location of plaintiffs fall can be said to abut defendant 1749 Associates’ property, the use of brick rather than cement to construct the sidewalk is insufficient to establish a special use on its part. No evidence was offered that the bricks were installed at the property owner’s direction in contemplation of any use other than by the general public (see Thomas v Triangle Realty, 255 AD2d 153, 154 [1998]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Michael Stallman, J.), entered March 17, 2003, which granted plaintiffs motion to restore this action to the calendar, unanimously affirmed, without costs. This case was dismissed for plaintiffs failure to appear at a preliminary conference. Defendants argue that the court erred in restoring the matter to the calendar because plaintiff failed to satisfy the criteria set forth in this Court’s decision in Ware v Porter (227 AD2d 214, 215 [1996]), requiring a movant to demonstrate “that the case has merit, that a reasonable excuse for the delay exists, the absence of an intent to abandon the matter, and a lack of prejudice to the non-moving party in the event the case is restored to the trial calendar.” However, these criteria apply to an application to vacate a dismissal where a case is deemed abandoned pursuant to CPLR 3404. Since no note of issue was ever filed in this case, dismissal was necessarily predicated on Uniform Rules for Trial Courts (22 NYCRR) § 202.27 (b), not CPLR 3404 (see Mediavilla v Gurman, 272 AD2d 146, 147 [2000]), and plaintiff is only required to state a reasonable excuse for her failure to appear and to establish that her action has merit (CPLR 5015 [a]; see Eugene Di Lorenzo, Inc. v Dutton Lbr. Co., 67 NY2d 138, 141 [1986]). “[L]aw office failure does not preclude the court from excusing a default or delay” (Mediavilla at 148; see also Harwood v Chaliha, 291 AD2d 234 [2002]). Plaintiff has provided a reasonable excuse for failure to appear at the preliminary conference due to her attorney’s neglect of matters entrusted to him, culminating in his disbarment (Matter of Katz, 274 AD2d 217 [2000]). Plaintiffs affidavit and accompanying medical documentation adequately demonstrate the merit of her action (see Mediavilla at 148) and, thus, Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in restoring this matter to the calendar. Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Robert Lippmann, J.), entered July 19, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the brief, denied plaintiff’s motion to amend the pleadings to add a cause of action for wrongful death, unanimously affirmed, without costs. While leave to amend a pleading is freely given (CPLR 3025 [b]), the court properly exercised its discretion in denying such leave since plaintiff failed to support her motion with “competent medical proof of the causal connection between the [accident] and the death of the original plaintiff’ (McGuire v Small, 129 AD2d 429 [1987]). Plaintiff’s decedent sustained.injuries when he fell from a ladder. He died approximately 21l% years later, and esophageal cancer was listed as the sole cause of his death. Plaintiffs conclusory medical affidavit was insufficient to establish a causal connection between the decedent’s cancer and his injuries, or to establish that the injuries played a role in hastening his death. Although plaintiffs expert’s affidavit set forth an alleged chain of events, it explained the cause-effect relationships between the links of the chain in conclusory terms and failed to indicate what medical records were reviewed. Furthermore, the expert did not set forth his credentials. In addition, defendants would be prejudiced by the addition of the wrongful death claim because they had not been previously made aware of any potential cancer-related claim by way of a bill of particulars or otherwise and because, under the circumstances, they were unable to conduct any meaningful investigation in order to prepare adequate defenses. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Harold Tompkins, J.), entered August 29, 2002, which, in this action seeking the recovery of legal fees, denied defendant’s motion to vacate a judgment entered against him on default, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Defendant has supplied no documentary evidence to support his claim that plaintiff gave him a written estimate of the cost of legal services that was substantially less than the amount for which plaintiff recovered judgment (cf. Herrick Feinstein, LLP v Stamm, 297 AD2d 477 [2002]). Therefore, defendant has failed to make the necessary showing that he has a meritorious defense to the action to support vacating the default judgment (CPLR 5015 [a] [1]; see Mediavilla v Gurman, 272 AD2d 146, 148 [2000]; Hunter v Enquirer/Star, Inc., 210 AD2d 32, 33 [1994]). Even if a meritorious defense could be discerned, defendant has failed to proffer any excuse for the untimely service of his answer and, in the absence of a reasonable excuse for the delay, the denial of defendant’s motion was a provident exercise of discretion (Gerlin v J. Homann Trucking, 303 AD2d 262 [2003]). Concur — Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Lerner, JJ.
Respondent reinstated as an attorney and counselor-at-law in the State of New York, effective the date hereof. No opinion. Concur — Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Saxe, Ellerin and Williams, JJ. [See 240 AD2d 106.]
Order, Family Court, New York County (Helen Sturm, J.), entered on or about May 6, 2003, which held petitioner, the Commissioner of the Administration for Children’s Services (ACS), in civil contempt for failing to appear promptly for a scheduled court proceeding and which directed ACS to reimburse respondent Willie S.’s lost wages for that date, unanimously reversed, on the law and the facts, without costs, and the order vacated. ACS’s failure to have an attorney present at the appointed time for an adjourned hearing was the result of a series of miscommunications involving the originally assigned ACS attorney, the replacement attorney, and their supervisor, and not a willful neglect or violation of duty (see Conforti v Goradia, 234 AD2d 237, 238-239 [1996]). Insofar as the order appealed refers to a pattern of mistakes, the contempt finding was based solely on the failure to timely appear on April 1, 2003, and there is no indication in the record of any adjournments necessitated by delinquency on the part of ACS. Moreover, ACS produced an attorney half an hour after being apprised by the court that the case had been called, and there was no showing that the rights or remedies of any party to the proceeding were impaired (see McCain v Dinkins, 84 NY2d 216, 225-226 [1994]; Clinton Corner H.D.F.C. v Lavergne, 279 AD2d 339, 341 [2001]). Indeed, neither in the proceedings below nor on appeal has the father claimed any prejudice or argued against ACS’s objections to the contempt finding, and the children’s Law Guardian actively supports ACS’s position. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Nardelli, Tom, Mazzarelli and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Sallie Manzanet, J.), entered June 24, 2003, which denied defendants’ motion to “amend” the note of issue to delete the statement that the answer had been stricken for failure to comply with discovery orders, unanimously reversed, on the law, the facts and in the exercise of discretion, the note of issue stricken, the answer reinstated, and the matter remanded for a hearing in accordance with the decision herein. Plaintiff, a machinist, allegedly suffered personal injuries as a result of a defectively designed and manufactured wire product that snagged, recoiled and struck him in the eye. On or about May 11, 2001, the Supreme Court (Joseph Giamboi, J.) ordered defendants to produce, inter alia, the entire contents of their customer complaint files (item 4 in the order) as well as certain specific documents and photographs (item 1 in the order) by June 11, 2001, or the answer would be stricken. Prior to the deadline, defendants appealed from that order, on the ground that they were entitled to a protective order, and sought a stay with respect to the entire customer files (item 4). On June 11, 2001, while the stay motion was still pending, defendants responded to the specific documentary and photographic requests (item 1) by providing affidavits from personnel at defendants’ Tonawanda, Ontario and Georgia facilities attesting to the fact that the requested items did not exist; apparently, plaintiff did not find that response satisfactory. Thereafter, this Court stayed that part of the order relating to the entire customer files (item 4). While the appeal was still pending, plaintiff obtained an order from the Supreme Court (Douglas McKeon, J.), entered October 26, 2001, which directed defendants to produce all discovery not subject to this Court’s stay within 20 days or suffer the striking of the answer without further order by the court. This Court stayed Justice McKeon’s order pending determination of the appeal. By order entered December 11, 2001 (289 AD2d 71 [2001]), this Court affirmed Justice Giamboi’s May 2001 order. Although this Court’s decision did not expressly state that the answer had not been stricken, that conclusion was apparent from the fact that the discovery orders had been stayed. The following day, December 12, defendants’ counsel informed plaintiffs counsel that the entire customer complaint files were available for inspection and copying. Instead, on December 21, plaintiff filed a note of issue representing that the answer had been stricken for failure to provide court-ordered discovery. Defendants moved to “amend” the note of issue to reflect that the answer had not been stricken. By order entered May 31, 2002, the Supreme Court (Sallie Manzanet, J.) noted that this Court had not provided a new discovery compliance date in the December 2001 order, and in the absence of a new deadline Supreme Court framed the issue as “whether movant defendant has in fact provided the required discovery.” However, the court stated that it did not have such information and therefore could not determine whether the answer had been stricken and whether the note of issue should be amended. The court directed defendants “to produce and exchange the outstanding discovery in Court” by a certain date, and ruled that failure by defendants to produce the discovery “will result in the striking of defendant’s answer for wilful and contumacious disregard of Court Orders. This is a self-executing Order.” Thereafter, defendants produced three boxes of documents and an affidavit from an employee at their Quebec facility to the effect that all extant documents had been produced, and offered to make their personnel available for depositions or a hearing on the issue of their claim that no other documents exist. By order entered June 24, 2003, denominated a grant of reargument, Justice Manzanet denied defendants’ application to amend the note of issue to state that the answer had not been stricken. The Court rejected as insufficiently proven defendants’ claim that no documents other than the three box-loads exist. In particular, thé affidavit of Louis Lemoine, the technical services manager at defendants’ Quebec facility, merely stated that it was his “understanding” that when defendants’ Tonawanda facility began downsizing in 1998 it shipped all its customer files to Quebec, from where all documents were produced in the three boxes. The court stated that, even if the documents no longer exist, “there is an inherent prejudice to plaintiff at this stage of the action where the case is presently scheduled for trial on June 27, 2003.” On appeal, plaintiff does not appear to contest the sufficiency of defendants’ production with respect to item 4 of Justice Giamboi’s May 2001 order, the entire customer complaint files. Rather, plaintiff argues that defendants failed to produce certain specific documents and photographs as directed in item 1 of that order and Justice McKeon’s October 2001 order, which orders struck the answer for such noncompliance. However, as noted, supra, this Court stayed that requirement pending determination of the appeal from Justice Giamboi’s order, and thus the answer was not previously stricken. Indeed, plaintiff acknowledges that Justice Manzanet’s first, May 2002, order only conditionally struck the answer and “gave defendants an additional ‘final’ opportunity to provide the specific Court-ordered discovery.” Accordingly, defendants are correct insofar as they argue that the representation in the note of issue that the answer had already been stricken was not accurate when the note of issue was filed on December 21, 2001. The answer was not struck until June 2003, when Justice Manzanet issued her second order, which discredited defendants’ assertion that they had produced all items in their possession and found that defendants had willfully and contumaciously failed to comply with discovery orders. Justice Manzanet’s finding of willful noncompliance was premised on the fact that Louis Lemoine, defendants’ employee at the Quebec facility, had only an “understanding,” without personal knowledge, that the Tonawanda facility had sent all documents there; thus, Lemoine’s affidavit might be sufficient to establish that all documents in the Quebec facility had been produced, but not to prove that all documents from Tonawanda or the other facilities had been produced. Defendants reference affidavits of employees from the pertinent facilities, in Tonawanda, Ontario and Georgia, attesting to the fact that no documents are in the possession of those branches. Plaintiff does not deny receipt of the affidavits. Moreover, when Justice Manzanet expressed skepticism at the hearing regarding defendants’ assertion that all existing documents had been provided, defendants offered to produce the pertinent employees for a hearing or depositions. In light of those facts, the June 24, 2003 order is reversed, the note of issue stricken, and the matter remanded for a hearing on whether the requested items of discovery still exist, whether there was spoliation, and, if so, what the appropriate sanction would be (see Sage Realty Corp. v Proskauer Rose, 275 AD2d 11 [2000]). Finally, we reject plaintiffs argument that the motion to “amend” the note of issue was untimely pursuant to 22 NYCRR 202.21 (e). Under that provision: “At any time, the court on its own motion may vacate a note of issue if it appears that a material fact in the certificate of readiness is incorrect.” Concur— Buckley, BJ., Nardelli, Tom, Mazzarelli and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (William Wetzel, J.), rendered May 23, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of rape in the first degree (five counts), sodomy in the first degree (two counts), robbery in the first degree (three counts), burglary in the first degree (three counts), burglary in the second degree, robbery in the third degree and sexual abuse in the first degree (two counts), and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to an aggregate term of 275 years, unanimously affirmed. The court properly exercised its discretion when it inquired whether the jury, after deliberating for six hours, had agreed upon a verdict as to any of the multiple counts submitted, and when it then accepted a partial verdict (see People v Mendez, 221 AD2d 162, 163 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 923 [1996]). There was nothing coercive or prejudicial about the court’s actions (see Bordas v Walker, 2000 WL 1867915, 2000 US Dist LEXIS 18324 [SD NY, Dec. 20, 2000]). Defendant’s remaining contentions are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would reject them. Concur—Buckley, EJ., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Determination of respondent Police Commissioner, dated January 26, 2002, finding petitioner guilty of wrongfully preventing and/or interfering with an official investigation by refusing to be interviewed by officers who were investigating a complaint against her, and in failing and neglecting to comply with an order to report to the 78th Precinct, and imposing a forfeiture of 20 vacation days, unanimously confirmed, the petition denied and the proceeding brought pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, New York County [James Yates, J.], entered on or about August 15, 2002), dismissed, without costs. Substantial evidence supports respondent’s findings. We reject petitioner’s arguments based upon her right against self-incrimination and to counsel (see e.g. Gardner v Broderick, 392 US 273 [1968]). The evidence establishes that petitioner refused to meet with a fellow officer who came to investigate a complaint against her and then refused a directive from a superior officer to report to the 78th Precinct to respond to the complaints of her neighbor, with whom she had been engaged in a longstanding dispute. There was nothing to prevent petitioner from complying with the superior officer’s directive and, at the same time, asserting her rights against self-incrimination and to counsel. The record establishes that the order to report to the 78th Precinct was lawful and that petitioner had no authority to disregard it. We have considered and rejected petitioner’s remaining arguments. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Stanley Green, J.), entered on or about October 22, 2002, which denied the parties’ respective motions for summary judgment as to plaintiff’s second cause of action for slander of title, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The intervention of a subsequent clarifying decision in this case (96 NY2d 468 [2001]) provides sufficient cause to entertain a second motion for summary judgment by defendants (Varsity Tr. v Board of Educ., 300 AD2d 38, 39 [2002]). However, the first element of plaintiffs claim—“a communication falsely casting doubt on the validity of complainant’s title” (Brown v Bethlehem Terrace Assoc., 136 AD2d 222, 224 [1988])—has already been established by the Court of Appeals’ ruling that the purported liens filed against the premises were invalid (96 NY2d at 474). Defendants’ argument that a lien arose upon their advancement of funds to plaintiffs transferor has been rejected (96 NY2d at 473-474). As to the second element, the filing of the invalid liens after the parties entered into an in rem installment agreement for the payment of $64,000 with respect to noticed liens for real estate taxes, water, sewer rent and emergency repairs that purported to settle all outstanding liens raises a factual question as to whether the filing constitutes a communication “reasonably calculated to cause harm” (Brown at 224; see also Iuliano v Romano, 225 AD2d 493 [1996]). While the complaint did not adequately plead special damages (see Drug Research Corp. v Curtis Publ. Co., 7 NY2d 435, 440-441 [1960]), the defect was remedied in plaintiff’s opposing affidavits, and the IAS court providently exercised its discretion in accepting a de facto amendment of the pleadings (CPLR 3025 [b]; see Edenwald Contr. Co. v City of New York, 60 NY2d 957, 959 [1983]). Plaintiff has offered evidence of a lost sale at a price of $525,000. However, defendants assert that the building was ultimately sold for a considerably greater sum, raising an issue of fact as to damages (see Childers v Commerce Mtge. Invs., 63 Ohio App 3d 389, 393, 579 NE2d 219, 222 [1989]; see also Bamira v Greenberg, 295 AD2d 206, 207 [2002]; Marcus v Bressler, 277 AD2d 108, 110 [2000]). Although other expenses may have been incurred, such as operating expenses and real estate taxes, these are not documented in the record, leaving a factual question as to the special damages element of plaintiffs cause of action. Finally, plaintiff’s restyling of his claim to include injurious falsehood is inconsequential since the elements of that cause of action are essentially identical to slander of title (compare Tolisano v Texon, 144 AD2d 267, 272 [1988] [Smith, J., dissenting], revd on dissenting mem 75 NY2d 732 [1989], with Brown, 136 AD2d at 224). Concur—Buckley, PJ., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Family Court, New York County (Rhoda Cohen, J.), entered on or about November 16, 2000, which, upon a fact-finding determination of permanent neglect, terminated respondent mother’s parental rights with respect to the subject child and committed custody and guardianship of the child to petitioner agency and the Commissioner of Social Services of the City of New York for the purpose of adoption, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Family Court’s finding of permanent neglect was supported by clear and convincing evidence that during the statutorily relevant period petitioner agency exercised diligent efforts to encourage and strengthen the relationship between respondent and her daughter, but that, despite those efforts, there was a pervasive failure on respondent mother’s part to address effectively the drug abuse problems and parenting deficits that had led to the child’s removal, and to maintain contact with the child to the extent required under the statute (see Social Services Law § 384-b [7] [a]; Matter of Sheila G., 61 NY2d 368, 385 [1984]). Family Court also properly found that the best interests of the child would be served by terminating respondent’s parental rights (see Matter of Star Leslie W., 63 NY2d 136, 147-148 [1984]). A suspended judgment was not warranted since, although petitioner had lately shown progress in dealing with her problems, she still had no realistic plan for her daughter’s return. The child’s best chance for familial permanence and stability lies in adoption by her foster mother, with whom the now six-year-old has lived since infancy (see Matter of Israel Zacarias G., 306 AD2d 106 [2003]). Concur—Buckley, P.J., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Megan Tallmer, J.), rendered January 11, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of robbery in the first and second degrees, coercion in the first degree, and attempted grand larceny in the second degree, and sentencing him to an aggregate term of 12 years, unanimously affirmed. Since defendant took no exception to the court’s charge, he did not call the court’s attention to his claim that the instructions delivered failed to satisfy the concern he raised in his request to charge, and that these instructions had the potential of misleading the jury into thinking that the requirement of intent to “deprive” or “appropriate” as defined in Penal Law § 155.00 did not apply to robbery. Accordingly, his present arguments are unpreserved (see People v Hoke, 62 NY2d 1022 [1984]; People v Whalen, 59 NY2d 273, 280 [1983]), and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would find that the court’s instructions, viewed as a whole (People v Fields, 87 NY2d 821 [1995]), adequately stated the law as it applied to the elements “deprive” or “appropriate.” The court defined robbery as necessarily incorporating larceny, and ultimately defined larceny with explicit reference to the definitions of “deprive” and “appropriate” set forth in the Penal Law. While the organization of the court’s charge may not have been optimal, there was no reasonable possibility that the jury could have been misled as to the applicability of these definitions to the robbery counts. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Louise Gruner Gans, J.), entered July 9, 2002, which, in this action for personal injuries, granted the motion of defendants 700 W. 178th Street Associates (Associates), Burton Goldberg and Stonecrest Management, Inc. for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims against them, unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, to the extent that it granted summary judgment dismissing the complaint as to defendant Stonecrest, and the balance of the appeal unanimously dismissed, without costs, as superseded by appeal from the order, same court and Justice, entered January 3, 2003. Said order entered January 3, 2003, which (1) upon reargument, vacated the July 9, 2002 order to the extent of reinstating the complaint as against defendants Associates and Goldberg, and (2) granted plaintiffs motion for leave to amend her bill of particulars to the extent of alleging a violation of Multiple Dwelling Law § 78, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The balance of plaintiffs appeal from so much of the order entered January 3, 2003 as denied leave to amend her bill of particulars to allege other regulatory and statutory violations unanimously dismissed as taken from a nonappealable denial of reaxgument, without costs. The record raises issues of fact concerning whether plaintiffs injuries resulted from a structural defect so as to constitute constructive notice to the landlord (see Johnson v Urena Serv. Ctr., 227 AD2d 325 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 814 [1996]; Lopez v 1372 Shakespeare Ave. Hous. Dev. Fund Corp., 299 AD2d 230, 231 [2002]). Plaintiffs deposition testimony that she slipped in water that had been leaking from an overhead sewer pipe onto the basement staircase for about IV2 months before the accident raises a factual question as to whether the defective condition was apparent and extant for a sufficient length of time prior to the accident that defendants’ employees should have discovered and corrected it (see Morrone v Chelnik Parking Corp., 268 AD2d 268, 269 [2000]). Amendment of plaintiffs bill of particulars was properly restricted to the alleged violation of Multiple Dwelling Law § 78 since the additional alleged statutory violations are inapposite to plaintiff’s claims. Concur— Buckley, EJ., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Helen Freedman, J.), entered on or about September 16, 2002, which granted in part and denied in part the motion of defendant-respondent Fidelity & Deposit Company of Maryland, for summary judgment dismissing all of plaintiffs claims for delay damages and for extra work, unanimously modified, on the law, to grant the motion to the further extent of dismissing all claims for damages against Fidelity & Deposit resulting from work order changes in excess of $24,520, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Plaintiffs arguments that it is entitled to damages against defendant surety Fidelity & Deposit for misrepresentations as to materials available for work on a project in which the plaintiff was substituted as the prime contractor are unavailing in view of the contract language obligating plaintiff to provide all materials. Its argument that the surety knew or should have known that there were not adequate materials to complete the project is not supported by the record. Plaintiff, moreover, is a sophisticated business entity, and could well have addressed any problems stemming from the brief time afforded it to review the project, by the insertion of contract language, a request for an extension of time to review the project, or refusal to submit a bid. Plaintiffs reliance upon Jackson v State of New York (210 App Div 115 [1924], affd 241 NY 563 [1925]) is unavailing. There, the defendant specifically misrepresented the scope of the work despite its concrete and exclusively held knowledge that the project would be significantly more involved. Here, plaintiff had access to the same information as the surety. Also unavailing is plaintiffs reliance on Bussanich v 310 E. 55th St. Tenants (282 AD2d 243 [2001]) in support of its contention that it is not bound by the “no damages for delay” provision in the project manual. While a subcontractor might, pursuant to Bussanich, not be bound by contractual provisions binding upon the contractor, plaintiff was substituted, not as a subcontractor but as the contractor and in that capacity agreed to be bound by the same provisions that had bound the original contractor. Finally, defendant’s argument that the only outstanding issue with regard to changes in work orders is whether plaintiff is owed $24,520 or $5,048 is unchallenged by plaintiff, and we modify accordingly. Concur—Buckley, PJ., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Anne Targum, J.), entered on or about October 16, 2001, which, upon a jury verdict, dismissed the complaint as against defendant HSS Properties Corporation (HSS), unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff sustained injury when she stepped into a 10-inch depression created by the removal of a tile in a suspended floor installed by defendant HSS in the computer room of its tenant, nonparty Hospital for Special Surgery, at the tenant’s request. Under the lease, the hospital is responsible for the maintenance of the demised premises, including structural and nonstructural repairs caused by the “carelessness, omission, neglect or improper conduct of Tenant ... or which arise out of any work . . . done for or supplied to the tenant.” The owner remains responsible for maintaining the exterior and public areas of the building and reserves the right to make certain repairs for which the tenant is responsible at the tenant’s expense. In the absence of a statute imposing liability per se (see Elliott v City of New York, 95 NY2d 730, 734 [2001]; Juarez v Wavecrest Mgt. Team, 88 NY2d 628, 638 [1996]) or a contractual obligation to repair and maintain the premises (Putnam v Stout, 38 NY2d 607 [1976]; Manning v New York Tel. Co., 157 AD2d 264, 266 [1990]), an out-of-possession owner can be held liable for a subsequent injury resulting from a dangerous condition in the building under a theory of constructive notice only where it has reserved the right to enter the premises to perform inspection, maintenance and repairs at the tenant’s expense and injury was caused by “a significant structural or design defect that is contrary to a specific statutory safety provision” (McDonald v Riverbay Corp., 308 AD2d 345, 346 [2003], quoting Johnson v Urena Serv. Ctr., 227 AD2d 325, 326 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 814 [1996]; see Guzman v Haven Plaza Hous. Dev. Fund Co., 69 NY2d 559, 566 [1987]). The record contains testimony from which the jury could reasonably find that there was no defect in the floor at the time the Hospital for Special Surgery took possession of the demised premises and that no agent of defendant HSS was aware of the subsequent removal of the floor tiles. Thus, the evidence does not mandate the conclusion that HSS had actual knowledge of the hazardous condition. Furthermore, the trial court properly declined to instruct the jury, over plaintiffs objection, that the alleged violation constitutes negligence per se. While the owner did not completely divest itself of the right to enter and make repairs to the demised premises, the asserted violation of provisions of the Administrative Code of the City of New York does not make the owner negligent as a matter of law; rather, proof of the violation is merely some evidence of negligence (Elliott at 734-735). This Court’s observation, on a summary record, that defendant HSS is deemed to have constructive notice of a violation of the Administrative Code (257 AD2d 500, 501-502 [1999]) is not tantamount to a finding of liability and, in any event, does not preclude our unfettered review of the legal sufficiency of the evidence supporting the jury verdict (Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v Noble Lowndes Intl., 192 AD2d 83, 87-88 [1993], affd 84 NY2d 430 [1994]). We have considered plaintiffs remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Shirley Werner Kornreich, J.), entered June 10, 2002, which granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and denied plaintiff’s cross motion for summary judgment on his cause of action under Labor Law § 240, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff, who was allegedly injured while taking down a decorated wooden disk that had been suspended for use as a ceremonial canopy at a wedding, was not working upon a “structure” at the time of his accident and, accordingly, may not recover for his injuries pursuant to Labor Law § 240 (1) (see Tanzer v A. Terzi Prods., 244 AD2d 224 [1997]). Because Labor Law § 241 (6), like section 240 (1), requires as a condition of its applicability that the injury-producing task be performed in connection with structural work (see Alfieri v New York City Tr. Auth., 190 AD2d 594 [1993], lv denied 82 NY2d 655 [1993]), plaintiffs claim thereunder was no more viable than his Labor Law § 240 (1) claim. Also properly dismissed were plaintiff’s claims under Labor Law § 200 and for common-law negligence. It is undisputed that defendants did not direct or control plaintiffs work (see Reilly v Newireen Assoc., 303 AD2d 214, 219 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 508 [2003]). Concur—Buckley, P.J., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Milton Tingling, J.), entered or about December 13, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion for summary judgment to the extent of finding that plaintiffs recovery against defendant, if any, should be limited pursuant to California’s vicarious liability statute (Cal Veh Code §§ 17150, 17151) to $15,000, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff was allegedly injured in an automobile accident in California in a vehicle rented to him in that state by defendant. Inasmuch as it is undisputed that the vehicle was never used or operated in New York, New York’s vicarious liability statute (Vehicle and Traffic Law § 388) is expressly inapplicable and plaintiffs reliance upon it is unavailing. Application of the California statute, the only potentially applicable vicarious liability provision, was proper to assure that there would be some responsible party answerable in damages. Concur — Buckley, P.J., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (William Mogulescu, J.), rendered on or about November 16, 1999, unanimously affirmed. Application by appellant’s counsel to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Saunders, 52 AD2d 833 [1976]). We have reviewed this record and agree with appellant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous points which could be raised on this appeal. Pursuant to Criminal Procedure Law § 460.20, defendant has the right to apply for leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals by making application to the Chief Judge of that Court and by submitting such application to the Clerk of that Court or to a Justice of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of this Department on reasonable notice to the respondent within 30 days after service of a copy of this order, with notice of entry. Denial of the application for permission to appeal by the judge or justice first applied to is final and no new application may thereafter be made to any other judge or justice. Concur— Buckley, EJ., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Joan Lobis, J.), entered December 2, 2002, which denied appellant’s motion to intervene, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Proposed intervenor, a prospective purchaser of real property that had been affected by a matrimonial action, waited nearly four years after being served with a copy of an injunction against the sale before attempting to challenge the injunction by intervening in the matrimonial action. Moreover, by the time the motion to intervene was made, a total of eight years had elapsed from the conclusion of the matrimonial case. Since the proposed intervenor offered no adequate explanation for the delay, the court properly exercised its discretion in denying intervention on the ground of untimeliness (see Vacco v Herrera, 247 AD2d 608 [1998]), notwithstanding that intervention was sought as of right (see CPLR 1012 [a] [3]; Berry v St. Peter’s Hosp. of City of Albany, 250 AD2d 63, 69 [1998], lv dismissed 92 NY2d 1045 [1999]). We have considered and rejected the proposed intervenor’s remaining arguments. Concur—Buckley, P.J, Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Michael Stallman, J.), entered March 28, 2003, which, inter alia, denied the motion of second third-party defendant Gandhi Engineering, EC. to sever the second third-party action, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The motion court properly exercised its discretion in denying Gandhi’s motion for a severance since the actions involve common factual and legal issues and judicial economy would be served by trying them together, the court afforded Gandhi an adequate opportunity to complete discovery, and Gandhi has not otherwise demonstrated prejudice due to its having been impleaded at the “eleventh-hour” (see e.g. Rothstein v Mil leridge Inn, 251 AD2d 154 [1998]; Pescatore v American Export Lines, 131 AD2d 739 [1987]). Concur—Buckley, P.J., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Judith Gische, J), entered November 14, 2002, inter alia, granting plaintiff a divorce on the ground of cruel and inhuman treatment, awarding plaintiff custody of the parties’ child, child support and attorney and expert fees, and awarding defendant visitation, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The finding of cruel and inhuman treatment is adequately supported by evidence of many instances of defendant’s irrational and paranoid behavior over many years, endangering plaintiffs well-being and rendering it unsafe or improper for her to cohabit with him (Domestic Relations Law § 170 [1]). Flaintiff was properly awarded sole custody of the parties’ teenage son upon a showing that she has raised and supported him virtually as a single parent since the time in 1990 that defendant demanded that she leave the marital residence with both of parties’ children, then ages 10 and 4. Visitation of one three-hour visit a week was also a proper exercise of discretion, given evidence of defendant’s lack of parenting skills and his tense relationship with his son. The trial court properly articulated the reasons for its award of child support, and otherwise properly exercised its discretion relative thereto, including its imputation of income to defendant. The trial court also properly exercised its discretion in its division of the marital property acquired prior to the parties’ 1990 separation, and, since the parties no longer functioned as an economic partnership after 1990, in its decision that each is entitled to 100% of what he or she acquired thereafter (see Francis v Francis, 286 AD2d 749 [2001]). Plaintiff was properly awarded 50% of her legal and expert fees upon a record showing that litigation costs were significantly increased by defendant’s numerous unrealistic claims, including the institution of a baseless Family Court proceeding. We have considered and rejected defendant’s other arguments. Concur— Buckley, EJ., Mazzarelli, Andrias, Sullivan and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Walter Tolub, J.), entered December 30, 2002, which, inter alia, denied, with leave to renew upon completion of discovery, defendants’ motion insofar as it sought to dismiss plaintiffs third cause of action against defendant Jennifer Kandemir, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Defendants’ prediscovery motion to dismiss pursuant to CPLR 3211 was properly denied as to plaintiffs third cause of action, which seeks to impose liability upon defendant-appellant Jennifer Kandemir and defendant Advanced Derma Tech, a limited liability company allegedly co-owned and operated by Jennifer Kandemir and her husband defendant Selcuk Kandemir, for the husband’s alleged tortious conduct while rendering treatment to plaintiff, a client of the company. Although the record indicates that Advanced Derma Tech is a limited liability company, which would generally preclude liability against Jennifer Kandemir (see Limited Liability Company Law § 609 [a]), at this prediscovery stage, it cannot be determined whether Jennifer Kandemir’s role in the closely held company and/or her knowledge or conduct with regard to the incidents of sexual harassment and abuse in question might nevertheless result in liability. Discovery must be completed before such determination is made. Reargument granted and, upon reargument, the decision and order of this Court entered herein on June 24, 2003 (306 AD2d 186 [2003]) is hereby recalled and vacated. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Andrias, Saxe, Williams and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Karla Moskowitz, J), entered August 5, 2002, which granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint, unanimously modified, on the law, so as to reinstate the cause of action for breach of contract, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Appeal from order, same court and Justice, entered April 11, 2003, which denied plaintiffs motion to renew, reargue and amend the complaint, unanimously dismissed, without costs. The motion court properly dismissed plaintiff’s defamation cause of action on the ground that defendant’s statements that plaintiff did “substandard” work and that the manuscript was “not up to standard” are constitutionally protected opinion (see Steinhilber v Alphonse, 68 NY2d 283, 292 [1986]; Jaszai v Christie’s, 279 AD2d 186 [2001]). However, the court erred in holding at this stage of the litigation that the parties’ April 30, 2001 collaboration agreement is neither incomplete nor unambiguous. It is axiomatic that in considering the sufficiency of a pleading subject to a motion to dismiss for failure to state a cause of action under CFLR 3211 (a) (7), the court must accept as true the factual averments of the complaint without expressing an opinion as to whether the truth of the allegations can ultimately be established (see Campaign for Fiscal Equity v State of New York, 86 NY2d 307, 318 [1995]). The instant complaint adequately alleges that the April 30, 2001 agreement was one of a series of oral and written agreements that reflect the parties’ understanding. Indeed, according to the complaint, both parties performed under a February 1999 oral agreement before any other agreements were signed. In addition, defendant acknowledges that the April 30 agreement does not preclude remedies for which it does not expressly provide, thereby conceding that the agreement is not complete. Paragraph 6 of the agreement provides that, “if the collaboration is unsuccessful,” text written by defendant shall revert to him and text written by plaintiff shall return to her, but there is no language indicating that reversion of their respective intellectual property rights is intended to be the sole remedy in the event of a breach by one of the parties or that plaintiff waived all her rights in the event of a breach. Indeed, defendant asserts that remedies for breach “would absolutely exist” if, for instance, future profits were not split as required by the agreement. Moreover, the term, “if the collaboration is unsuccessful,” is ambiguous. The motion court declared that “Dr. Aston no longer collaborates with Ms. Locke; the collaboration is unsuccessful.” However, the term “unsuccessful” is susceptible of other meanings (cf. Breed v Insurance Co. of N. Am., 46 NY2d 351, 355 [1978] [a contract is unambiguous if its language has “a definite and precise meaning, unattended by danger of misconception in the purport of the (agreement) itself, and concerning which there is no reasonable basis for a difference of opinion”]). The court rejected plaintiffs argument that the term refers to the parties’ inability to find a publisher, on the ground that when they entered into the agreement the parties had already signed a publishing contract with HarperCollins. However, the publishing contract, which is expressly referred to in the April 30 agreement, provides numerous grounds for the publisher to refuse to publish, and indeed HarperCollins did not agree to go forward until May. The publishing contract required the manuscript to be “acceptable” to the publisher and allowed the publisher to terminate if it did not deem the manuscript acceptable. It also provided for the publisher’s control of all details of publication, including pricing, advertising and promotion of the book. These provisions, and others, made it possible for the parties’ collaboration to be “unsuccessful” even after the publishing contract was signed and even if the parties did not breach their obligations to each other. Thus, it is not clear that paragraph 6 of the April 30 agreement was intended to apply in the event that one party did in fact breach his obligations to the other. The motion court also erred in dismissing the breach of contract cause of action on the additional ground that plaintiffs allegation of lost profits is unduly speculative. That such damages must be capable of measurement with reasonable certainty does not require either absolute certainty or mathematical precision (Ashland Mgt. v Janien, 82 NY2d 395, 403 [1993]). Plaintiff alleges facts from which an approximation based upon known reliable factors could be made without undue speculation (id.). We note that she also alleges damages for expenses advanced. Concur — Nardelli, J.E, Tom, Sullivan, Ellerin and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Joseph Cerbone, J.), rendered October 2, 2000, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of attempted murder in the second degree, and sentencing him to a term of SVs to 25 years, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was not against the weight of the evidence. Issues of credibility, including the weight to be given to the victim’s background and the inconsistencies in his testimony, were properly considered by the trier of facts and there is no basis for disturbing its determinations (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s request to admit into evidence a court record which, standing alone and without explanatory testimony, had no probative value. The challenged conduct by the prosecutor did not deprive defendant of a fair trial. There was no pattern of inflammatory remarks that would warrant reversal (see People v D'Alessandro, 184 AD2d 114, 118-119 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 884 [1993]). We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. We have considered and rejected defendant’s remaining claims, including those contained in his pro se supplemental brief. Concur — Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Andrias, Marlow and Gonzalez JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Lewis Stone, J.), rendered February 21, 2002, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to concurrent terms of 4V2 to 9 years and 1 year, respectively, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was based on legally sufficient evidence (see People v Bello, 92 NY2d 523 [1998]). The evidence, including the recovery of buy money from defendant and his statement to the police, permitted a reasonable inference that defendant was a participant in the drug transaction, whose function was to hold the proceeds of the sale. The court properly denied defendant’s request for a missing witness charge as to a police sergeant involved in the process of vouchering evidence. The court correctly determined that the request was untimely and that the witness’s testimony would have been cumulative (People v Gonzalez, 68 NY2d 424, 428 [1986]). We have considered and rejected defendant’s remaining claims. Concur—Andrias, J.P., Ellerin, Williams, Lerner and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Budd Goodman, J.), rendered November 14, 2002, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of leaving the scene of an accident without reporting, and upon her plea of guilty, of assault in the second degree and reckless endangerment in the second degree, and sentencing her to a term of five months’ imprisonment to be followed by five years’ intensive supervision probation and 500 hours of community service on the leaving the scene conviction, concurrent with concurrent terms of time served and 10 days on the remaining convictions, unanimously modified, on the law, to the extent of directing that defendant’s sentence of imprisonment on the leaving the scene of an accident conviction run concurrently with her sentence of probation on that conviction, and, as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice, to replace the provision for intensive supervision probation with a provision for standard probation, and otherwise affirmed. Penal Law § 60.01 (2) (d) requires that sentences of imprisonment and probation imposed for the same conviction run concurrently, and we modify the sentence accordingly. However, we reject defendant’s argument that the two months she served prior to sentencing should also be credited against her term of probation (see Penal Law § 65.15 [1]; People ex rel. Maye v Keating, 225 AD2d 836 [1996]). We also find the sentence excessive to the extent indicated. Concur—Tom, J.P, Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Ira Gammerman, J.), entered on or about April 2, 2002, which, inter alia, granted defendants’ cross motion for summary judgment, declaring that there is no coverage under the subject insurance policy for the claims against plaintiff in the underlying action entitled High Risk Opportunities Hub Fund Ltd. (in Liquidation) v Credit Lyonnais and Société Générale (Index No. 600229/00), unanimously affirmed, with costs. The coverage afforded plaintiff under the subject “Bankers’ Professional Indemnity Insurance Policy” was clearly and unambiguously limited to losses resulting from claims made during the policy period alleging plaintiffs “wrongful acts” in the performance of “professional services” (Albert J. Schiff Assoc. v Flack, 51 NY2d 692, 699 [1980]). Accordingly, the motion court properly declined to consider plaintiffs parol evidence offered to establish that the policy afforded plaintiff “all risks” coverage, and properly concluded that, since the allegations of High Risk against plaintiff in the underlying action did not involve the performance of “professional services rendered for others” as required under the policy, they did not trigger the insurers’ obligations under the policy (see Allstate Ins. Co. v Zuk, 78 NY2d 41 [1991]). High Risk’s complaint alleged plaintiffs failure to pay certain debt obligations involving currency derivative transactions linked to the value of the Russian ruble, in which transactions plaintiff, as principal, was trading on its own account, and not for a third party. No factual issues are raised as to whether the underlying transactions involved the performance of “professional services rendered for others” based on plaintiff’s claim that it acted as a “credit intermediary” between High Risk and plaintiffs Russian affiliate, Banque Société Générale Vostok, or that it performed duties incidental to the underlying transactions, such as acting as a valuation and calculation agent. We have considered plaintiffs remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Determination of respondent Commissioner, dated December 20, 2001, dismissing petitioner from his position as a New York City police officer, unanimously confirmed, the petition denied and the proceeding brought pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, New York County [Nicholas Figueroa, J.], entered August 21, 2002), dismissed, without costs. Substantial evidence (see 300 Gramatan Ave. Assoc. v State Div. of Human Rights, 45 NY2d 176, 181-182 [1978]), including petitioner’s own testimony and that of several other witnesses (see Matter of Groff v Kelly, 309 AD2d 539 [2003]), supported respondents’ findings that petitioner was guilty of specified misconduct involving, inter alia, the submission of fraudulent insurance claims, making false and misleading statements during a departmental investigation, and making false entries on a departmental document. In light of the proven misconduct, the penalty of dismissal does not shock our sense of fairness (see Matter of Kelly v Safir, 96 NY2d 32, 39-40 [2001]). Concur— Tom, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Robert Lippmann, J.), entered March 18, 2002, which awarded plaintiff the principal amount of $326,842.13, unanimously modified, on the law, to vacate a 50% rent abatement for a two-week period, based on conditions in defendants’ apartment, in the amount of $1,591.22 and the award of $5,000 for attorneys’ fees, and remand the matter for a hearing to determine the actual amount of counsel fees, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. The record in this protracted litigation (see Solow v Wellner, 86 NY2d 582 [1995]) supports plaintiffs entitlement to the rent arrears awarded, any evidentiary shortcomings in its prima facie case having been resolved at trial. Plaintiff is entitled to interest on the arrears since defendants’ purported tenders pursuant to CPLR 3219 were conditional and, thus, did not stop the accrual of interest (see Cohen v Transcontinental Ins. Co., 262 AD2d 189, 190-191 [1999]). Defendants’ counterclaim for breach of an express warranty is not viable (Solow v Wellner at 589). As to the breach of the warranty of habitability (Real Property Law § 235-b), the evidence reflects a diminution in the value of the common areas due to inadequate and unreliable elevator service in this high-rise apartment building over a period of five years, warranting a 5% rent abatement (see Park W. Mgt. Corp. v Mitchell, 47 NY2d 316, 329-330 [1979], cert denied 444 US 992 [1979]; Solow v Wellner, 154 Misc 2d 737, 741 [1992], affd in part 205 AD2d 339 [1994], affd 86 NY2d 582 [1995]). However, in view of the finding that plaintiff promptly made any necessary repairs, the 50% abatement granted defendants for buckling floors during a two-week period is without foundation (see Solow v Wellner, 154 Misc 2d at 740-741). While the court properly found plaintiff to be the prevailing party (see Duell v Condon, 84 NY2d 773, 778 [1995]; Peachy v Rosenzweig, 215 AD2d 301, 302 [1995]), a hearing is required to determine the amount of attorneys’ fees actually incurred by plaintiff (see Zimiles v Hotel Des Artistes, 216 AD2d 45 [1995]). We have considered the parties’ remaining contentions for affirmative relief and find them unavailing. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Michael Stallman, J.), entered April 9, 2003, which, inter alia, granted the motion of the City of New York (City) for summary judgment dismissing the cross claims asserted against it, unanimously affirmed, without costs. In this pothole-related accident case, the court properly granted the City’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the cross claims against it. Pursuant to Administrative Code of the City of New York § 7-201 (c) (2), prior written notice is a condition precedent to maintaining an action against the City arising from a street defect. The City properly established, through an affidavit from an appropriate official, that a search of the Department of Transportation’s records was conducted and that there was no prior written notice of the defective condition (see Cruz v City of New York, 218 AD2d 546, 547 [1995]). There is no evidence that the City created the defective condition. Accordingly, that exception to the requirement of prior written notice does not apply. Neither actual nor constructive notice of the defect may substitute for prior written notice (Amabile v City of Buffalo, 93 NY2d 471, 474 [1999]; see also Cenname v Town of Smithtown, 303 AD2d 351 [2003]). We have considered appellants’ remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Edward Lehner, J.), entered December 27, 2002, which denied defendant Kamel Wazne’s motion for an order directing Jerrold Ross, as guardian of the person and property of Lily McKinley, to produce his ward for an examination before trial in this action, unanimously affirmed, with costs. While incapacity for the purpose of guardianship is not dis-positive as to capacity to testify in a legal proceeding (see Mental Hygiene Law § 81.29 [b]; Barker v Washburn, 200 NY 280, 282-283 [1911]), the IAS court had ample, additional information from which to conclude that Dr. McKinley lacks the requisite capacity to testify either at an examination before trial or at trial (see Brown v Ristich, 36 NY2d 183, 188-189 [1975]). Her guardian’s assertion that her memory of even recent events is severely impaired is supported by the affirmation of a geriatric psychiatrist and by the transcript of a hearing during which she could not recall that the previous witness was her home attendant, leading the court to note that her condition had “deteriorated significantly” since her first appearance. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Alice Schlesinger, J), entered April 29, 2002, which, upon the grant of the motion of defendants FGP Bush Terminal and Newmark & Company Real Estate at the close of plaintiffs case, dismissed the complaint as against those defendants, and judgment, same court and Justice, entered June 20, 2002, upon a jury verdict, in favor of defendant Allboro Piping and against plaintiff, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The court properly quashed plaintiffs subpoena to require the testimony of an expert retained by the defense since involuntary expert opinion testimony may not ordinarily be compelled, and there were no circumstances upon which an exception to this rule might have been premised (see People ex rel. Kraushaar Bros. & Co. v Thorpe, 296 NY 223 [1947]; see also Gilly v City of New York, 69 NY2d 509 [1987]). Where, as here, the disposed-of evidence was not key to the proof of plaintiffs case, the court properly exercised its discretion in limiting its sanction against defendant Allboro for spoliation to an adverse inference charge (see Tommy Hilfiger, USA v Commonwealth Trucking, 300 AD2d 58, 60 [2002]). The complaint was properly dismissed against defendants FGP Bush and Newmark & Company in light of the absence of evidence that their conduct was a substantial factor in causing the flood that damaged plaintiffs premises (see Howard v Poseidon Pools, 72 NY2d 972 [1988]). Finally, the trial evidence, most notably the testimony of defendant Allboro’s president, enabled the jury to render fairly the verdict it did in Allboro’s favor. The jury was not bound to accept the testimony of plaintiff’s expert (see Chadbourne & Parke v HGK Asset Mgt., 295 AD2d 208, 209 [2002]) as to causation and the standard of care in the subterranean plumbing industry. Concur — Tom, J.P, Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Robert Straus, J.), rendered September 24, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of robbery in the first and third degrees, and sentencing him to consecutive terms of 15 years and 2 to 6 years, and judgment, same court (William Mogulescu, J.), rendered February 25, 2002, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of robbery in the third degree, and sentencing him to a concurrent term of 2 to 6 years, unanimously affirmed. The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s request to introduce expert testimony concerning eyewitness identification (see People v Lee, 96 NY2d 157 [2001]). The record does not support defendant’s assertion that the court failed to exercise its discretion. We note that even without expert testimony, defendant was able to attack thoroughly the People’s identification testimony through cross-examination and summation arguments. Although an expanded identification charge would have been the better practice, we find no basis for reversal in this regard because the court sufficiently instructed the jury on the subject of identification (see People v Knight, 87 NY2d 873 [1995]; People v Whalen, 59 NY2d 273, 278-279 [1983]). We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. We have considered and rejected defendant’s remaining claims. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Family Court, New York County (Helen Sturm, J.), entered on or about October 22, 2001, which denied petitioner’s objections to the order of the Hearing Examiner, dated April 9, 2001, and dismissed the petition for support arrears, unanimously modified, on the law and the facts, to grant petitioner’s objections insofar as to reinstate and grant the petition to the extent of awarding petitioner child support arrears of $5,957, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. While the credibility findings of a hearing examiner are entitled to deference (see e.g. Sivigny v Sivigny, 213 AD2d 243, 244 [1995]), respondent’s uncorroborated and undocumented testimony that he made “a few” cash payments “around Christmastime, before [his] daughter’s birthday, things like that” and that he paid petitioner “maybe” or “about” $4,000 in cash, that he believed or “seemed to recall” that his attorney had given two additional checks in the amount of $311 each to petitioner, and that he believed, but could not be sure, that an additional $2,000 payment had been made to petitioner from his pension plan, did not warrant the credits against support arrears given by the Hearing Examiner. Under the pendente lite order, petitioner was entitled to the sum of $26,000 for support and maintenance. Crediting respondent for documented payments of $16,000 from his pension and $4,043 in direct payment checks, there remains due petitioner the sum of $5,957. We have examined petitioner’s other arguments and find them unavailing. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Michael Corriere, J.), rendered October 5, 2000, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of three counts of kidnapping in the first degree, and sentencing him to concurrent terms of 25 years to life, and order, same court and Justice, entered on or about February 5, 2002, which denied defendant’s motion to vacate the judgment pursuant to CPL 440.10, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was supported by legally sufficient evidence. After a thorough hearing, the court properly denied defendant’s motion to vacate the judgment. There is no basis for disturbing the court’s credibility determinations, which are supported by the record (see People v Prochilo, 41 NY2d 759, 761 [1977]). The record establishes that defendant received effective assistance of counsel (see People v Benevento, 91 NY2d 708, 713-714 [1998]; see also Strickland v Washington, 466 US 668 [1984]). Counsel properly prepared for trial, provided appropriate advice concerning plea negotiations, and pursued a reasonable trial strategy. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Karla Moskowitz, J.), entered April 11, 2003, which, inter alia, approved in part petitioner’s plan for distribution of the net cash assets of the investment fund limited partnerships, and held that the general partner must repay certain incentive compensation, that it must allocate negative balances in the limited partners’ capital accounts to its own account, and that it should be replaced as the liquidating trustee, unanimously affirmed, without costs. We agree with Supreme Court’s cogent analysis of the limited partnership agreements. Reading the agreements as a whole (Rentways, Inc. v O’Neill Milk & Cream Co., 308 NY 342, 347 [1955]), the reasonable discretion accorded to the general partner to revalue the limited partners’ capital accounts at the end of an accounting period is appropriately construed to encompass the correction of erroneous historical values. Restricting the exercise of such discretion to the final accounting period, as urged by those limited partners opposing the distribution plan, would bestow a windfall on certain limited partners and unfairly permit the general partner to retain incentive compensation, based entirely on phantom profits. A contract should not be interpreted to produce a result that is absurd (see Tougher Heating & Plumbing Co. v State of New York, 73 AD2d 732 [1979]), commercially unreasonable (see Elsky v Hearst Corp., 232 AD2d 310, 311 [1996]; Madison Murray Assoc. v Perlbinder, 215 AD2d 204 [1995], lv denied 88 NY2d 810 [1996]) or contrary to the reasonable expectations of the parties (see 833 N. Corp. v Tashlik & Assoc., 256 AD2d 535, 537 [1998]). We have considered the parties’ other contentions for affirmative relief and find them unavailing. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Martin Marcus, J.), rendered February 8, 2002, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and criminal sale of a controlled substance in or near school grounds, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to concurrent terms of 6 to 12 years, unanimously affirmed. The court’s Sandoval ruling balanced the appropriate factors and was a proper exercise of discretion (see People v Hayes, 97 NY2d 203 [2002]; People v Walker, 83 NY2d 455, 458-459 [1994]; People v Pavao, 59 NY2d 282, 292 [1983]). The court minimized the possibility of prejudice by permitting the People to identify only one of defendant’s felony convictions as a drug conviction, and by precluding any inquiry into underlying facts. The verdict convicting defendant of criminal sale of a controlled substance in or near school grounds was based on legally sufficient evidence. The evidence warranted the conclusion that the drug transaction occurred near school grounds within the meaning of Penal Law § 220.00 (14) (see People v Carter, 291 AD2d 355 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 695 [2002]; see also Penal Law § 220.00 [1]; People v Samuels, 99 NY2d 20, 24 [2002]). We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Concur— Nardelli, J.P, Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (John Cataldo, J.), entered on or about August 19, 2003, which denied the motion of petitioner’s counsel to quash a subpoena served on him to require his production of documents and his appearance as a witness in connection with a criminal action, unanimously modified, on the law, the motion to quash granted to the extent of deleting item number 3 of the document requests in the subpoena, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Petitioner is suspected of providing movant, her counsel, with documents falsely backdated so as to exonerate her of the commission of an offense or offenses for which she has been indicted. The motion court properly declined to quash the subpoena insofar as it requested documents already produced to the People, any claim of privilege having been waived by the prior production (see New York Times Newspaper Div. of New York Times Co. v Lehrer McGovern Bovis, 300 AD2d 169, 172 [2002]). As for the originals of the subject documents (assuming the ones produced in court were copies), and as to any oral communications that petitioner made to movant with reference to the documents, the People have persuasively shown that the crime-fraud exception applies, since the record demonstrates that there exists a factual basis for a showing of probable cause to believe that a fraud or crime has been committed, and that the communications in question were in furtherance of such fraud or crime (see United States v Jacobs, 117 F3d 82, 87 [1997]). The subpoena’s demand for “any medical records provided by [petitioner] to [movant] at any time,” however, should have been quashed because the record does not indicate that there is probable cause to believe that a fraud or crime was committed each time a medical document was exchanged between petitioner and movant, or that there is probable cause to believe that communications in connection with each of those documents — however many there may have been — were in furtherance of a fraud or crime (cf. id.; see also In re Richard Roe, Inc., 168 F3d 69, 71 [1999]). Concur — Nardelli, J.P, Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Lawrence Tonetti, J.), rendered September 20, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle in the first degree, and sentencing him to a term of 1 to 3 years, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was not against the weight of the evidence. There is no basis for disturbing the jury’s determinations concerning credibility. The credible evidence established every element of the crime charged (see Vehicle and Traffic Law § 511 [3] [a] [ii]; People v Noble, 86 NY2d 814 [1995]). Defendant’s arguments concerning the court’s charge are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would find that the court’s instruction on the jury’s duty to reach a unanimous verdict was appropriate. Concur — Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Family Court, New York County (Richard Ross, J.), entered on or about March 30, 2000, which granted petitioner a three-year order of protection based on aggravating circumstances, excluded appellant from the marital residence and directed appellant to pay petitioner restitution in the amount of $592.50, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The court’s finding that appellant committed numerous violent acts against petitioner was fully supported by credible testimony. These aggravating circumstances justified an order of protection for three years, as well as exclusion of appellant from the marital residence (see Family Ct Act § 827 [a] [vii]; § 842; Matter of Quintana v Quintana, 237 AD2d 130 [1997]; Leffingwell v Leffingwell, 86 AD2d 929 [1982]). The court also properly ordered appellant to pay restitution for petitioner’s personal items disposed of by appellant (Family Ct Act § 841 [e]). The existence and cost of these items were established by petitioner’s credible testimony. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Anne Targum, J.), entered April 11, 2003, which, to the extent appealed from, denied the motion by defendants 2 Overhill Road Associates and The Blitman Building Corp. for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, and denied 2 Overhill Road Associates’ motion for summary judgment in its third-party action against Structural Contracting Corp., unanimously affirmed, without costs. At the time plaintiff Sylvester Thomas was struck by a falling length of pipe, he was physically participating in the operation to unfasten and remove that pipe from the ceiling (cf. Roberts v General Elec. Co., 97 NY2d 737 [2002], and Narducci v Manhasset Bay Assoc., 96 NY2d 259 [2001]). The primary issues are whether, given the nature of the injury-producing work, provision of a hoisting or securing device of the kind enumerated in Labor Law § 240 (1) would have been necessary or expected and whether the absence of such safety devices was a substantial cause of plaintiffs harm. Questions of fact preclude summary disposition of these issues as well as plaintiffs claims for common-law negligence as codified in Labor Law § 200, and his claim under Labor Law § 241 (6) related to possible Industrial Code violations (see Gawel v Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y., 237 AD2d 138 [1997]). The third-party action for contractual indemnification is similarly dependent on factual determinations as to the third-party plaintiffs freedom from negligence (Itri Brick & Concrete Corp. v Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 89 NY2d 786, 795 [1997]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Richard Braun, J.), entered January 13, 2003, which granted defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The court properly found that defendant demonstrated its entitlement to summary judgment as a matter of law and that plaintiff failed to show the existence of material issues of fact to warrant a trial (Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). Plaintiffs “surmise, conjecture or suspicion” (Shaw v Time-Life Records, 38 NY2d 201, 207 [1975]) that the reason for his failure to obtain certain employment was that employees of defendant, his former employer, must have violated the nondisparagement clause of his separation agreement, was insufficient to defeat the summary judgment motion. The inferences that plaintiff seeks to draw in order to prove his case are purely speculative. Since the additional claim that a supposed violation of the nondisparagement clause caused plaintiff’s termination from subsequent employment was not properly before Supreme Court, we decline to consider it. In any event, defendant provided evidence to warrant summary judgment and plaintiff presented nothing more than the same sort of speculative inferences as he did with respect to the other claim. We have considered and rejected plaintiffs remaining arguments, including his procedural claims. Concur—Nardelli, J.E, Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Orders, Supreme Court, New York County (Shirley Werner Kornreich, J), entered April 4, 2003 and June 13, 2003, which, to the extent appealed from, denied plaintiffs motions to renew her prior motions seeking disclosure of defendant Hillside Children’s Center’s records pertaining to defendant Sergey Reznikov, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The records being sought by plaintiff are protected by the physician-patient privilege. Although plaintiff is entitled to any nonmedical information contained in the records, the Supreme Court has already conducted an in camera review of the documents and determined that they relate to diagnosis, care, treatment, therapeutic programs and prognosis (see Sohan v Long Is. Coll. Hosp., 282 AD2d 597 [2001]; Mental Hygiene Law § 33.13 [c] [1]), and are therefore privileged. Defendant Reznikov, the person whose records are being sought, has not placed his medical or psychiatric condition in controversy and there is no basis for a finding that he has waived his privilege (see Lopez v Oquendo, 262 AD2d 24 [1999]). Plaintiff s claim for relief concerning a portion of the court’s order from which plaintiff did not appeal is not properly before this Court (Jaffe v Gordon, 240 AD2d 232 [1997]). We have considered and rejected plaintiff’s remaining contentions. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Martin Schoenfeld, J.), entered October 11, 2002, awarding third third-party defendant Wausau Insurance Company a total sum of $1,403,196.92, and bringing up for review an order, same court and Justice, entered September 10, 2002, granting Wausau’s motion for summary judgment on its subrogation claim against third third-party defendants American Steel Erectors and Reliance National, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Wausau Insurance Company, the party in interest, provided coverage to subcontractor Owen Steel Company under a policy that named the contractor, defendant Turner Construction Company, and the project owners as additional insureds. Pursuant to the stipulated settlement of a claim brought by an employee of Owen Steel’s subcontractor, appellant American Steel Erectors, Inc., Wausau paid $900,000, which it now seeks to recover from American and its insurer, Reliance National (collectively, American). Recovery is warranted for the reasons stated in this Court’s previous decision, rejecting application of the antisubrogation rule to bar Wausau’s claim for reimbursement (241 AD2d 166, 172 [1998]): “The court’s order prevents Wausau from recovering from American the payment Wausau has made on behalf of Turner/450 for injury sustained by an American employee. Yet, pursuant to the indemnification clauses of the various subcontracts, each respective subcontractor was required to procure insurance to cover precisely the contingency that occurred— injury to an employee of the subcontractor. By including these indemnification and ‘hold harmless’ provisions in each subcontract, the parties contemplated that the subcontractor would bear the loss in such instance. This is precisely the result achieved by permitting Wausau to be subrogated to the rights of Turner/450 and recover from American the claim Wausau has paid on behalf of Turner/450” (emphasis added). This decision is dispositive of the issues of American’s liability for the injury to its own employee and Wausau’s right, as Turner’s subrogee, to reimbursement for funds paid to the contractor. Since Owen bears no liability for the injury to American’s employee, it is clear that Wausau made payment on behalf of Turner, as an additional insured under its policy, and not on behalf of its own insured. This Court therefore reinstated the third-party indemnification action against American, with Wausau as subrogee, and did not revive any action for which Owen would be liable. Since American bears total responsibility for the loss, the settlement agreement’s loss allocation provision is inapposite. We have considered appellant’s remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Herman Cahn, J.), entered May 22, 2003, which, inter alia, granted plaintiff bank’s motion for an order of seizure insofar as necessary to recover the sum of $149,000, plus interest, and confirmed a referee’s finding that defendants had been properly served pursuant to CPLR 308 (4), and order, same court and Justice, entered July 15, 2003, which, inter alia, amended the prior order to permit the seizure of additional collateral of up to $60,000 to secure plaintiff’s claim for legal fees and directed a reference to determine the amount due, unanimously affirmed, with one bill of costs. Efforts to serve defendants at their place of business and three attempts to serve them at their residence during and after business hours constitute due diligence (CPLR 308 [4]), particularly in view of defendants’ failure to inform plaintiff of the relocation of their fur business and the collateral securing the loan. We perceive no basis to disturb the referee’s findings as to the process server’s credibility. Defendants’ default under the note and the provision of the loan agreement for a security interest in their inventory and a right to possession upon default establish plaintiff’s prima facie entitlement to the provisional remedy of seizure (CPLR 7102 [c]; see Red Apple Supermarkets v Malone & Hyde, 228 AD2d 176 [1996], lv dismissed 89 NY2d 916 [1996]; Seaman-Andwall Corp. v Wright Mach. Corp., 31 AD2d 136, 137, affd 29 NY2d 617 [1971]; General Elec. Credit Corp. v Marcella’s Appliances Sales & Servs., 66 AD2d 927 [1978]), obliging defendants to come forward with evidentiary facts demonstrating “the existence of a triable issue of fact with respect to a bona fide defense” (Sacco v Sutera, 266 AD2d 446, 447 [1999]; see E.D.S. Sec. Sys. v Allyn, 262 AD2d 351 [1999]). Plaintiffs exercise of its rights under the notes and security agreement does not afford a basis for a claim of bad faith. Finally, the loan agreement expressly secures plaintiff against costs associated with the taking and sale of the collateral, and the court therefore properly modified the order of seizure to secure payment of attorneys’ fees and to direct a reference as to the amount thereof (see Arent Fox Kintner Plotkin & Kahn v Lurzer GmbH, 297 AD2d 590 [2002]). We have considered defendants’ remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Charles Solomon, J., at hearing; Richard Carruthers, J., at jury trial and sentence), rendered November 14, 2001, convicting defendant of robbery in the first degree (three counts) and attempted robbery in the first degree, and sentencing him, as a second violent felony offender, to concurrent terms of 20 years (three terms) and 10 years, unanimously affirmed. The court properly denied defendant’s suppression motion. The record, which includes the photographs of the lineup, supports the court’s finding that the lineup participants were sufficiently similar in appearance so that defendant was not singled out for identification (see People v Chipp, 75 NY2d 327, 336 [1990], cert denied 498 US 833 [1990]). The court’s Sandoval ruling balanced the appropriate factors and was a proper exercise of discretion (see People v Hayes, 97 NY2d 203 [2002]; People v Walker, 83 NY2d 455, 458-459 [1994]; People v Pavao, 59 NY2d 282, 292 [1983]). We note that the court precluded inquiry into the majority of defendant’s numerous convictions. We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. We have considered and rejected defendant’s remaining claims. Concur—Nardelli, J.E, Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Appeal from order, Supreme Court, New York County (Barry Salman, J.), entered April 4, 2003, which granted plaintiffs’ motion for an order compelling defendants and third-party defendant to permit the inspection of a certain loading dock and platform, unanimously dismissed as moot, with one bill of costs payable by defendants-appellants to plaintiffs. Appellants’ claim that the court erred in granting plaintiffs’ motion for inspection of the accident site after a note of issue had already been filed is moot because they did not seek or obtain a stay of the court’s order, and plaintiffs’ expert has already inspected the subject premises. In any event, there were extraordinary circumstances in this case justifying a post-note-of-issue inspection for the purpose of opposing defendants’ summary judgment motion, which was also post-note-of-issue (compare Boisvert v Town of Grafton, 131 AD2d 910 [1987]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Ellerin, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Martin Schoenfeld, J.), entered on or about January 28, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the briefs, granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment except to the extent of sustaining the first cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress against defendants Hersh Meir Ginsberg, also known as Zvi Meir Ginsberg, and Ary eh Ralbag, the eighth and tenth causes of action for defamation as to defendants The Union of Orthodox Rabbis of the United States and Canada, Inc., Hersh Meir Ginsberg, also known as Zvi Meir Ginsberg, Aryeh Ralbag, Haim Kraus, Elimelech Zalman Lebowitz and Solomon B. Herbst, and the fourteenth cause of action alleging that defendants Solomon B. Herbst and Beth Din Zedek of AmericaEin Moshe (the Herbst defendants) aided and abetted Ginsberg to intentionally inflict emotional distress, and order, same court (Nicholas Figueroa, J.), entered on or about September 9, 2002, which, insofar as appealable, denied renewal, modified, on the law, to grant renewal and to dismiss the first, eighth, tenth and fourteenth causes of action against the various defendants, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. The Clerk is directed to enter judgment in favor of defendants dismissing the complaint. At issue on this appeal is whether plaintiff wife’s claims for defamation, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and aiding and abetting the latter tort in the context of a religious divorce proceeding are justiciable or otherwise sufficient to survive the motions of the defendant rabbis and rabbinical courts for summary judgment to dismiss the complaint. Insofar as plaintiffs claims are predicated upon challenges to the rabbinical tribunal’s procedures and issuance of a “heter,” or permission for the husband to remarry, instead of a “get,” or religious divorce, review is proscribed by the First Amendment entanglement doctrine (see Presbyterian Church in U.S. v Mary Elizabeth Blue Hull Mem. Presbyt. Church, 393 US 440, 447 [1969]) as an infringement upon a religious community’s “independence from secular control or manipulation” (Kedroff v St. Nicholas Cathedral of Russian Orthodox Church in N. Am., 344 US 94, 116 [1952]). Indeed: “The law knows no heresy, and is committed to the support of no dogma, the establishment of no sect. The right to organize voluntary religious associations to assist in the expression and dissemination of any religious doctrine, and to create tribunals for the decision of controverted questions of faith within the association, and for the ecclesiastical government of all the individual members, congregations, and officers within the general association, is unquestioned. All who unite themselves to such a body do so with an implied consent to this government, and are bound to submit to it. But it would be a vain consent and would lead to the total subversion of such religious bodies, if any one aggrieved by one of their decisions could appeal to the secular courts and have them reversed. It is of the essence of these religious unions, and of their right to establish tribunals for the decision of questions arising among themselves, that those decisions should be binding in all cases of ecclesiastical cognizance, subject only to such appeals as the organism itself provides for” (Watson v Jones, 13 Wall [80 US] 679, 728-729 [1871]). The United States Supreme Court’s subsequent statement that there might be “marginal civil court review” of an ecclesiastical tribunal’s determination that is the direct result of fraud or collusion for secular purposes was dictum (see Serbian E. Orthodox Diocese for U.S. of Am. & Canada v Milivojevich, 426 US 696, 713 [1976]). In any event, plaintiffs allegation that the heter was fraudulently procured through bribery was unsubstantiated and speculative, and conclusively refuted by defendants’ documentary evidence tendered in support of their renewal motion. The allegedly defamatory statements which would require an examination of religious doctrine or practice, or an inquiry into the methodology of how the rabbinical tribunal arrived at its conclusions concerning questions of religious doctrine, such as whether plaintiff failed to respond to the summons of the rabbinical tribunal, are not actionable by virtue of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment (see Mandel v Silber, 304 AD2d 538 [2003]; Klagsbrun v Va’ad Harabonim of Greater Monsey, 53 F Supp 2d 732 [1999], affd 263 F3d 158 [3d Cir 2001]). To the extent plaintiff has alleged defamatory statements which can be evaluated solely by the application of neutral principles of law and do not implicate matters of religious doctrine and practice, such as whether plaintiff is sane or is a fit mother, they are not barred by the Establishment Clause (see Berger v Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 303 AD2d 346, 348 [2003]; Klagsbrun, supra). Nevertheless, those statements are subject to a qualified privilege, since they were made by the rabbis in a heter in the discharge of a private duty and in furtherance of a common interest of a religious organization (Mihlovan v Grozavu, 72 NY2d 506, 509 [1988]; Matter of Kantor v Pavelchak, 134 AD2d 352, 353 [1987]; Kalika v Stern, 911 F Supp 594, 603 [ED NY 1995]). Further, plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that the statements were made with malice, as is required to overcome the privilege and render them actionable under a claim of defamation. Plaintiff’s defamation claim is deficient on the additional ground that the publication element has not been met, since there is no evidence that defendants disclosed the existence or the substance of the heter to third parties unrelated to the heter process itself. Concur—Buckley, EJ., Mazzarelli, Saxe and Marlow, JJ. Williams, J.,
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Daniel FitzGerald, J.), rendered July 13, 2000, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of murder in the first degree, and sentencing him to a term of 25 years to life, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was based on legally sufficient evidence and was not against the weight of the evidence. Issues concerning identification and credibility were properly considered by the jury and there is no basis for disturbing its determinations (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). The court properly denied defendant’s challenge for cause to a prospective juror. Although the juror called into question her ability to be impartial, she ultimately gave a specific and unequivocal assurance of impartiality that was credited by the court (see People v Chambers, 97 NY2d 417 [2002]). The court properly denied defendant’s motion to suppress identification testimony. The lineup was not unduly suggestive (see People v Chipp, 75 NY2d 327, 336 [1990], cert denied 498 US 833 [1990]). The record supports the hearing court’s finding that the body size difference between defendant and the other lineup participants was effectively concealed by the use of cardboard screens. Defendant’s remaining complaints about the lineup are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would reject them. We have considered and rejected defendant’s remaining claims. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Nardelli, Mazzarelli, Ellerin and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Ira Gammerman, J.), entered February 28, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (4), unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, the motion denied and the complaint reinstated. Plaintiff, San Ysidro Corporation (SYC), a California corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Anglo American Agriculture, pic (AAA), a British public limited company. Pursuant to a management services agreement between AAA and American Agriculture Holdings, Inc. (AH), AH’s New York office advises SYC on, inter alia, all financial matters. Defendant Hermann Melchior Robinow is a resident of Great Britain. His involvement in this action is through his son, Richard Robinow, who is chairman of AAA and the guardian ad litem of his father. In May 1999, Richard Robinow came to New York and met with the presidents of SYC and AH, who are both New York residents, to discuss a proposed corporate reorganization of AAA, which involved the issuance of promissory notes by SYC in defendant’s favor. Eventually they agreed upon terms of an approximately $2 million note with a June 30, 2009 maturity date, executed “as of’ June 29, 1999. This note was issued and signed in New York and provided that its terms were to be construed pursuant to New York law. In October 2000, SYC obtained an additional loan from a New York branch of Union Bank of Switzerland AG (UBS), where SYC maintains a corporate bank account. Part of this loan was secured by defendant through a letter of credit payable at UBS in New York. On October 17, 2001, defendant sent a notice of default on the note to SYC’s California address and sought to accelerate the remainder due, contending that SYC had defaulted on the UBS loan. By summons with notice filed on October 23, 2001, SYC commenced the instant declaratory judgment action, alleging that no default had occurred. On November 9, 2001, after two prior attempts at service, defendant’s son Jeremy Robinow accepted delivery of the summons with notice on defendant’s behalf in London. By stipulation dated December 4, 2001, referring to this action as “commenced on October 23, 2001,” the parties agreed to extend defendant’s time to respond to the summons or demand service of the complaint until December 20, 2001. On November 27, 2001, before SYC could serve its complaint, defendant served SYC’s president in New York with a California summons and complaint seeking recovery under the note. The California summons and complaint, as well as a subsequent amended complaint, all predate the aforesaid stipulation. SYC moved for a stay in the California action at approximately the same time defendant moved to dismiss in the New York action for lack of personal jurisdiction and on the ground that the California action was pending. SYC’s motion for a stay was preliminarily denied by the California court on the ground that the New York action was filed first, but without prejudice to SYC’s right to move under forum non conveniens. Apprised of the California court’s preliminary ruling, the IAS court in New York dismissed the instant action for declaratory relief on February 28, 2002. Shortly thereafter, the California court granted SYC’s motion to stay the California action under forum non conveniens on condition that SYC waive the statute of limitations and consent to jurisdiction in New York. SYC now appeals the dismissal of the New York action. We find that the IAS court erred in dismissing the New York declaratory judgment action in favor of the California action seeking money damages since “a genuine, justiciable controversy exists” (Seneca Ins. Co. v Lincolnshire Mgt., 269 AD2d 274, 275 [2000]). Inasmuch as the filing of a summons with notice, absent the service of the complaint, does not constitute the commencement of an action for CPLR 3211 (a) (4) purposes (Security Mut. Life Ins. Co. of N.Y. v DiPasquale, 271 AD2d 268, 269 [2000]), the California action may be deemed to have been commenced first in time. However, while such technical priority in the commencement of actions is a factor to be considered, it is not necessarily dispositive, particularly where both actions are at the earliest stages of litigation, where one forum’s connections clearly predominate and where such priority was achieved by such duplicity as occurred here. In the instant matter, since the subject note was negotiated and signed in New York and expressly provided that New York law would govern, New York has a significant and substantive nexus to the controversy, and thus is the most appropriate forum for its resolution. Furthermore, it is clear from the chronology of events that while defendant’s counsel was negotiating a stipulation to extend defendant’s time to answer or demand a complaint in the New York action, counsel had already prepared the California complaint, the ex parte application to have Richard Robinow appointed his father’s guardian ad litem and the amended complaint. Although the IAS court did not address the branch of defendant’s motion seeking dismissal for lack of personal jurisdiction pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (8), we find no question on this record that Richard Robinow was, at all relevant times, acting on behalf of his elderly father and that his appearance in New York to negotiate the terms of the subject note was sufficiently purposeful activity to confer jurisdiction (CPLR 302; see Kreutter v McFadden Oil Corp., 71 NY2d 460 [1988]; Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler v Dreyfuss, 266 AD2d 51 [1999]). Defendant’s remaining contentions have been considered and found to be without merit. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Nardelli, Sullivan, Williams and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Barbara Kapnick, J.), entered on or about July 23, 2002, which, in this malicious prosecution action, granted plaintiffs’ application for a protective order preventing defendant Crown Heights Jewish Community Council, Inc. from inquiring, during the deposition of plaintiff David Fischer, into the factual allegations made in the underlying RICO action, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff Fischer alleges that defendants maliciously prosecuted him when, in 1992, they commenced a RICO action against him, which action was dismissed on the merits (295 AD2d 227, 228 [2002]). While defendants seek to depose Fischer respecting the factual allegations made in the RICO action to buttress their contention that the action’s dismissal was attributable to fraud and should thus be deemed unavailing as an element of Fischer’s malicious prosecution claim (see Munoz v City of New York, 18 NY2d 6, 10 [1966]), defendants’ allegations of lately discovered fraud are insufficient to justify the inquiry sought. We have considered defendants’ remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, EJ., Tom, Ellerin and Williams, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Bertram Katz, J.), entered on or about June 4, 2002, which, upon the grant of re-argument or renewal, denied defendant-appellant’s motion to dismiss the action against her on statute of limitations grounds, and adhered to a prior order (same court and Justice) entered May 17, 2001, allowing plaintiff an extension of time to effect service on defendant-appellant, affirmed, without costs. In this medical malpractice action to recover for personal injuries and wrongful death, the IAS court properly exercised its discretion in granting, in the interest of justice, plaintiffs motion pursuant to CPLR 306-b for an extension of time to effectuate service. The motion court considered all relevant factors in concluding that an extension of time was justified (see Leader v Maroney, Ponzini & Spencer, 97 NY2d 95, 104 [2001]; see also Wideman v Barbel Trucking, 300 AD2d 184, 185 [2002]). Appellant failed to show any prejudice, particularly in light of evidence in the record that she had actual notice of the action. Based on the totality of the circumstances, we conclude that plaintiffs delay in requesting an extension under CPLR 306-b was excusable (see Leader, 97 NY2d at 106). Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Andrias and Rosenberger, JJ. Sullivan, J,
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Anne Tar gum, J.), entered March 26, 2002, which denied plaintiff’s motion for partial summary judgment on the issue of the liability of defendant Kraumlap Realty Corp. (Kraumlap) for wrongful eviction and which granted the cross motions of Kraumlap and fourth-party defendant Wavecrest Management Team, Ltd. (Wavecrest) for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and fourth-party complaint, unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, plaintiffs motion for partial summary judgment granted, the cross motions denied, the complaint and fourth-party complaint reinstated and the matter remanded for further proceedings. In this case, we must decide whether a decision and order issued by Housing Court in a rent nonpayment case has res judicata effect in a subsequent wrongful eviction action for damages in Supreme Court. Plaintiff, Irma Fusco, had been a tenant in an apartment located on Pilot Street, Bronx, New York for approximately 23 years until her eviction by Kraumlap on September 12, 1994. During the last three years of her tenancy, the building was in receivership, and defendant Leonard Kohl (Kohl) was the court-appointed receiver. Kohl retained fourth-party defendant Wavecrest Management Team, Ltd. as managing agent for the premises. In August 1994, Kraumlap bought the property in a judicial sale from Kohl. Prior to the sale of the premises to Kraumlap, Kohl had commenced two actions for nonpayment of rent against plaintiff. The first nonpayment proceeding was commenced on or about November 4, 1992. By order dated March 30, 1993, Housing Court Judge Trussel found that plaintiff owed rent of $195 per month for December 1992 through March 1993, and that rent for months prior to December 1992 had mistakenly been sought by Kohl. On September 15, 1993, for some unexplained reason, Kohl commenced a second nonpayment proceeding, again seeking the rent due from December 1992. This second case was also assigned to Judge Trussel. Plaintiff claimed that she had withheld rent because of the landlord’s failure to repair allegedly deteriorated conditions in her apartment and the building in general. At an October 7, 1993 hearing, Judge Trussel ordered that the 1992 and 1993 cases be consolidated. Both cases with their different index numbers remained on the court’s docket, and, at least for a time, record entries were made under both index numbers. A final judgment, awarding Kohl $2,342.40 in back rent for December 1992 and extending through November 1993 and allowing plaintiff 10 days to pay the arrears, was docketed on November 10, 1993 under the index numbers for both cases. The judgment was not paid, and a warrant of eviction was issued on February 3, 1994, but only under the index number for the 1993 case. On February 16, 1994, plaintiff moved by order to show cause to vacate the judgment, but the show cause order was docketed only under the index number for the 1992 case. No action was taken with regard to the eviction warrant at that time. On May 11, 1994, as a result of plaintiffs order to show cause, a new judgment was entered in the 1992 case, with Judge Trussel finding that, by that point, plaintiff owed $3,510 in rent for December 1992 through May 1994, less $1,500 in rent abatement and $40 in costs, for a final judgment in the amount of $1,970. No warrant of eviction issued from this judgment. On May 15, 1994, plaintiff allegedly attempted to pay the judgment but erroneously tendered the abatement amount of $1,500 rather than the judgment amount of $1,970. Thus, she had a balance due and owing on the judgment of $470. Nonetheless, the check was cashed by Kohl’s agent Wavecrest. In June 1994, plaintiffs regular monthly rent check of $195 was rejected by Kohl as an improper partial payment as arrears were due and owing. However, plaintiffs July 1994 rent check for $195 was accepted and cashed without comment. On August 2, 1994, Kohl sold the premises to Kraumlap. Plaintiffs August and September 1994 rent checks were never cashed by the new owner. Instead, on September 12, 1994, Kraumlap evicted plaintiff, utilizing the February 3, 1994 warrant of eviction that had been issued to Kohl in the 1993 case in connection with the November 10, 1993 judgment. Two days later, Kraumlap entered into a lease with a new tenant for what had been plaintiffs apartment. Plaintiff immediately moved by order to show cause to be restored to possession. By this time, Judge Trussel had retired, and plaintiff’s motion was assigned to Housing Court Judge Heymann. Judge Heymann disposed of plaintiffs restoration motion in a written decision dated November 22, 1994, and entered in the 1993 case. It is this decision that Kraumlap and Wavecrest claim, and the motion court agreed, operates as res judicata to defeat plaintiffs complaint in the instant action. Judge Heymann framed the issues to be decided as follows: “The primary issue, which appears to be one of first impression, is whether the new owner of the subject premises (Kraumlap Realty Corp.) had the authority to evict respondent pursuant to the warrant issued in the name of the petitioner/ receiver without first being substituted or joined as a party and/or amending the warrant of possession to the new owner prior to said eviction? “In the event the court finds no such authority vested in the new owner, resulting in an improper eviction, the court must then determine whether the respondent should be restored to possession.” Transcripts of the October 7, 1993 hearing, at which Judge Trussel had directed that the 1992 and 1993 nonpayment cases be consolidated, were not made available to Judge Heymann, and plaintiff’s contentions that the two cases had been consolidated and that the May 11, 1994 judgment entered in the 1992 case superseded the November 10, 1993 judgment and related eviction warrant were rejected by the court. Hence, the court determined that the judgment and eviction warrant entered in the 1993 case were valid instruments upon which a legal eviction of the tenant could have been maintained. However, the court held that Kraumlap had no authority to execute on the warrant since it had been issued not to Kraumlap, but to its predecessor Kohl: “Therefore, even though Kraumlap Realty Corp. acquired all the rights and remedies pertinent to the subject premises upon foreclosure, it remained in legal limbo with regard to this pending litigation. The receiver’s authority terminated with the sale of the property. Without seeking to be substituted or joined as a party [citation omitted], or at the very least moving to amend the warrant prior to its execution [citation omitted], Kraumlap Realty Corp. had no authority to order the marshal to proceed with the eviction.” (Emphasis added.) Having concluded that Kraumlap had wrongfully evicted plaintiff and operating in some measure on the belief that the two nonpayment proceedings had not been consolidated, the court determined, as a matter of equity, that plaintiff had not established a sufficient basis for ousting the new tenant, who had entered the lease in good faith and with no knowledge of the plaintiffs rental disputes with the property owners. Accordingly, the court denied plaintiffs motion to be restored to possession, but, at the same time, denied Kraumlap’s cross motion to be substituted as party petitioner and to file a referee’s deed and assignment nunc pro tunc. Plaintiff did not appeal that decision of the Housing Court, but, instead, commenced the instant action in Supreme Court for wrongful eviction against Kraumlap, Kohl, the City Marshal and VIP Moving Systems, Inc., seeking, inter alia, damages, treble damages and attorneys’ fees pursuant to the Rent Stabilization Law and Code and the Real Property Law. Plaintiff moved for partial summary judgment on the issue of Kraumlap’s liability on her wrongful eviction claim. Plaintiff contended that Kraumlap’s liability had already been established by Judge Heymann’s decision holding that Kraumlap had no authority under the eviction warrant issued to Kohl to proceed with an eviction. Plaintiff submitted additional evidence in support of her claim that the two nonpayment proceedings had been consolidated and that the November 10, 1993 judgment and warrant of eviction which had been issued pursuant to that judgment had been superceded by the May 11, 1994 judgment, from which no warrant of eviction ever issued. Thus, plaintiff maintained that Kraumlap carried out an eviction based on no warrant or on a warrant that it was not authorized to use, and accordingly is liable to plaintiff for wrongful eviction. Kraumlap cross-moved for summary judgment dismissing plaintiff’s complaint, arguing, inter alia, that plaintiff had already litigated the issues in this proceeding in Housing Court, that she did not appeal that decision, and that Judge Heymann’s decision operates as res judicata to bar the present action. Fourth-party defendant Wavecrest also cross-moved for summary judgment dismissing the fourth-party complaint against it. Supreme Court denied plaintiff’s motion for partial summary judgment on Kraumlap’s liability; granted Kraumlap’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims against it; and granted Wavecrest’s cross motion for judgment dismissing the fourth-party complaint. The court reasoned in pertinent part as follows: “In denying plaintiffs motion [to be restored to possession], [the Housing Court] effectively found that, in light of the correctness of the proceeding, the failure to substitute the new owner was the equivalent of failing to perform a ministerial task which did not render the entire eviction unlawful. This order by Judge Heymann was . . . never appealed .... It is axiomatic that, failing to timely take the requisite appeal procedure, the parties are bound by the decision and order of the Court. Said decision becomes res judicata, or law of the case. This Court finds that the 1994 decision of Judge Heymann, covering as it does virtually the same facts as in this case, is res judicata in the matter.” The motion court erred in determining that the Housing Court’s denial of plaintiffs motion to be restored to possession was res judicata, barring her instant claim for monetary damages for wrongful eviction. Res judicata and collateral estoppel are related doctrines that are designed to limit or preclude relitigation of matters that have already been determined (People v Evans, 94 NY2d 499, 502 [2000]). Res judicata generally precludes relitigation of claims, while collateral estoppel precludes relitigation of issues (id.). Plaintiff’s claim in Housing Court was that she should be restored, as a matter of equity, to possession of her apartment. Her claim was based, in part, on her assertion that the warrant of eviction under which Kraumlap was operating had been superceded by a later judgment or that it did not authorize Kraumlap to evict her. Plaintiff lost on her restoration claim, because the court determined that she had not provided a sufficient equitable basis for ousting the new tenant from possession. The correctness of that decision is not before us. Under res judicata principles, plaintiff would be barred from relitigating her claim to be restored to possession of the apartment. She is not, however, precluded from asserting and litigating a claim for damages arising from the allegedly wrongful eviction (see e.g. Padilla v Padilla, 164 Misc 2d 740 [1995] [where an eviction is held to be illegal but a new tenant is already in place, the court must balance the equities to determine if reinstatement is warranted or if the evicted tenant is relegated to a damages action only]). Moreover, the issue of whether Kraumlap wrongfully evicted plaintiff was determined by the Housing Court, adversely to Kraumlap. Contrary to the motion court’s determination, the Housing Court did not conclude that plaintiff’s eviction was lawful or that the failure of Kraumlap to be substituted on the warrant or joined as a party was a mere technical defect that did not render the eviction unlawful. Rather, the court specifically concluded that Kraumlap had no authority under the warrant and thus, that the warrant was improperly effectuated. The issue of the lawfulness of Kraumlap’s eviction of plaintiff was therefore determined between the parties, and, under collateral estoppel principles, Kraumlap is foreclosed from relitigating that issue in the present damages action. Concur—Andrias, J.E, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Betty Owen Stinson, J.), entered March 13, 2002, which denied petitioner’s application for permission to file a late notice of claim nunc pro tunc, unanimously reversed, on the law, the facts and in the exercise of discretion, without costs, the disposition of the motion vacated, and the matter remanded for hearing. Petitioner Janice Young, appearing as parent and guardian of Zahir Brooks, an infant under 14 years of age, filed a petition on September 28, 2001 for leave to file a late notice of claim pursuant to General Municipal Law § 50-e (5). Petitioner’s claim is for negligent hiring and supervision of a New York City public school teacher, who allegedly sexually abused Zahir in 1998 when he was a nine-year-old student at PS. 78. The IAS court denied the petition, finding that petitioner failed to provide a reason for the delay or to demonstrate that respondents had actual or constructive knowledge of the facts giving rise to the alleged incident, and that petitioner’s delay prejudiced respondents’ ability to investigate and respond to the allegations. We reverse. General Municipal Law § 50-e (1) (a) requires that a claimant against a municipal entity file a notice of claim within 90 days after the claim arises. However, General Municipal Law § 50-e (5) vests courts with broad discretion to extend the time to serve a notice of claim, provided such extension does not exceed the statute of limitations applicable to the claim. The statute directs that, in determining whether to grant such an extension, the court consider, “in particular, whether the public corporation . . . acquired actual knowledge of the essential facts constituting the claim” within the specified 90-day filing period “or within a reasonable time thereafter” (General Municipal Law § 50-e [5]). In addition, the statute directs, in relevant part, that the court “shall . . . consider all other relevant facts and circumstances, including: whether the claimant was an infant, or mentally or physically incapacitated . . . and whether the delay in serving the notice of claim substantially prejudiced the public corporation in maintaining its defense on the merits” (id.). Respondents, in opposition to the petition, submitted an affidavit of the current school principal, who stated that a search of Board of Education and P.S. 78 files had disclosed no records regarding the alleged assault and that PS. 78 had not been notified of the alleged assault until after May 1, 2001. In reply, petitioner submitted an affidavit in which she stated that the former principal of Zahir’s school, Dr. lone Edwards, was made aware of the allegations of sexual abuse within days of the alleged incident and that Dr. Edwards interviewed Zahir within a week thereafter. In this Court, respondents acknowledge that petitioner’s affidavit raises an issue of fact as to whether the school authorities were provided timely actual notice of the alleged wrongdoing and whether they suffered any prejudice in their ability to investigate the claim and maintain a defense. Respondents thus have chosen not to contest petitioner’s appeal. In view of the foregoing, as well as the fact of the infancy of the claimant (see e.g. Cohen v Pearl Riv. Union Free School Dist., 51 NY2d 256, 263, 265 [1980]; see also Matter of Potter v Board of Educ., 43 AD2d 248 [1974]), the order denying the petition is reversed and the matter remanded for a hearing on whether respondents timely acquired actual notice of the alleged facts giving rise to the claim. Concur—Tom, J.P, Andrias, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Milton Tingling, J.), entered on or about December 6, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from, denied defendant-appellant’s cross motion for summary judgment seeking dismissal of the complaint for failure to meet the serious injury threshold of Insurance Law § 5102 (d), unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, the cross motion granted and the complaint dismissed. The Clerk is directed to enter judgment in favor of defendant-appellant dismissing the complaint. Plaintiffs commenced the instant action for personal injuries after the car in which they were riding on February 5, 1997 was struck from behind by a car driven by defendant. In their complaint, both plaintiffs allege that they sustained serious injury as defined by Insurance Law § 5102 (d). In June 2002, defendant moved for summary judgment on the ground that neither plaintiff had met the serious injury threshold. In support of the motion, defendant attached the sworn affirmation of a chiropractor, Dr. Gary Cohen, who examined both plaintiffs in May 2002 at defendant’s request. Based on his examinations and a review of prior reports, Dr. Cohen diagnosed both plaintiffs with “cervical, thoracic and lumbar strain/sprain-resolved,’ ’ and concluded that both plaintiffs were presently capable of performing all daily activities without physical restriction or limitation. Defendant also submitted the sworn affirmation of a radiologist, Dr. Audrey Eisenstadt, who reviewed a lumbar MRI of plaintiff James Shinn, performed on April 9, 1997, two months after the accident. Although Dr. Eisenstadt noted a “dessication or drying out” of disc material at the L4-5 level, and a disc herniation at the L3-4 level, she concluded that the disc abnormalities were not traumatically induced, but rather were the result of preexisting degenerative conditions. In opposition to defendant’s motion, plaintiffs submitted an unsworn “Physician’s Affidavit” and narrative report of their examining chiropractor, Dr. Gary Palmieri, who examined plaintiffs for the first time in 2002, as well as unsworn MRI and chiropractors’ reports from 1997. Dr. Palmieri stated that the 2002 MRI films revealed that both plaintiffs had disc herniations at the C3-4 and C4-5 levels; that such findings were consistent with the patients’ 40% restricted range of motion, orthopedic testing and subjective complaints of pain; and that these injuries were directly caused by the February 1997 auto accident. The motion court denied defendant’s summary judgment motion, finding that plaintiffs’ evidence raised a triable issue of fact as to the serious injury threshold “even if only by the slightest margin.” We reverse. “[A] defendant can establish that [a] plaintiffs injuries are not serious within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) by submitting the affidavits or affirmations of medical experts who examined the plaintiff and conclude that no objective medical findings support the plaintiffs claim” (Grossman v Wright, 268 AD2d 79, 83-84 [2000]). If this initial burden is met, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to come forward with evidence to overcome the defendant’s submissions by demonstrating a triable issue of fact that a serious injury was sustained within the meaning of the Insurance Law” (id. at 84). We find that defendant met her initial burden by making a prima facie showing that plaintiffs did not sustain serious injury under Insurance Law § 5102 (d) (see Martin v Schwartz, 308 AD2d 318 [2003]). Defendant submitted Dr. Cohen’s sworn affirmation stating that after examining plaintiffs and reviewing their respective medical records, he concluded that neither plaintiff was seriously or permanently injured. Additionally, Dr. Eisenstadt’s report reveals that plaintiff James Shinn’s disc abnormalities were the result of preexisting degenerative conditions, and thus not causally related to the February 1997 accident. This evidence, submitted in proper form, was sufficient to establish prima facie entitlement to dismissal for failure to meet the serious injury threshold (see Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955, 956-957 [1992]; Vaughan v Baez, 305 AD2d 101 [2003]; Duldulao v City of New York, 284 AD2d 296, 297 [2001]). In contrast, the unsworn affirmation and medical reports submitted by plaintiffs in opposition were not in admissible form (see Grasso v Angerami, 79 NY2d 813, 814-815 [1991]). Specifically, the “affirmation” of Dr. Palmieri, a chiropractor, was not competent evidence since it was not subscribed before a notary or other authorized official (see Grossman v Wright, 268 AD2d at 85). As we have previously held: “CPLR 2106 does not provide that a chiropractor may affirm the truth of his statement with the same force as an affidavit. Plaintiffs failure to submit the chiropractor’s report in admissible form requires its exclusion from consideration” (Sanchez v Romano, 292 AD2d 202, 203 [2002]; see also Martin v Schwartz, supra; Ramos v Dekhtyar, 301 AD2d 428, 429 [2003]). However, as plaintiffs correctly note, defendant raised this argument concerning the form of Dr. Palmieri’s affirmation for the first time on this appeal, and therefore it is unpreserved for appellate review. Such failure to raise this issue before the motion court constitutes a waiver of any objection (see Scudera v Mahbubur, 299 AD2d 535 [2002]; Sam v Town of Rotterdam, 248 AD2d 850, 851-852 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 804 [1998]), and we consider plaintiffs’ opposition on the merits. In order to prove the extent or degree of physical limitation, an expert may designate a numeric percentage of a plaintiffs loss of range of motion or may make a qualitative assessment of plaintiffs condition, provided that the latter evaluation has an objective basis and compares the plaintiffs limitations to the normal use of the affected body system or function (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345, 350-351 [2002]; Dufel v Green, 84 NY2d 795, 798 [1995]). Here, Dr. Palmieri’s affirmation satisfies these requirements by demonstrating that the 2002 MRI tests performed on both plaintiffs’ cervical spines revealed disc herniations and that testing showed that each plaintiff had a 40% restriction on range of motion of the cervical spine. What plaintiffs’ submissions fail to do, however, is demonstrate that the cervical disc herniations or any other serious injury suffered by plaintiffs are causally related to the February 1997 accident. The record shows that after the accident, plaintiffs did not miss any work except a few hours for medical appointments. They received chiropractic treatment for approximately nine months after the accident, and, according to the unsworn chiropractor’s reports from 1997, they both had some limitations of range of motion in the cervical and lumbar spine. However, neither of them was diagnosed with cervical disc herniations. Moreover, despite a 1997 MRI showing James Shinn as having herniated and bulging discs in his lumbar spine, plaintiffs failed to address defendant’s medical evidence attributing those injuries to preexisting degenerative conditions (see Lorthe v Adeyeye, 306 AD2d 252 [2d Dept 2003]). It was not until June 2002, after plaintiffs became aware of defendant’s intent to cross-move for summary judgment based on the lack of serious injury, that plaintiffs recommenced chiropractic treatment with Dr. Palmieri. Only then, after a 4V2-year lapse in treatment, did Dr. Palmieri discover herniated discs on both plaintiffs’ cervical spines. Given this 41/2-year unexplained gap in treatment (see Vaughan v Baez, 305 AD2d 101 [2003]; Melendez v Feinberg, 306 AD2d 98, 99 [2003]; Grossman v Wright, 268 AD2d 79, 84 [2000]), and the fact that the herniated discs were not diagnosed until five years after the accident (see Arrowood v Lowinger, 294 AD2d 315, 316 [2002]), we find that Dr. Palmieri’s opinion that these injuries are causally related to the February 1997 accident is conclusory and fails to raise a triable issue of fact as to causation. We also reject plaintiffs’ argument that the motion court’s finding in their favor on liability necessarily includes a finding that plaintiffs sustained serious injury. In the first instance, the argument is factually flawed, as the court never found for plaintiffs on liability. Although the court did find defendant at fault for purposes of dismissing her counterclaim against plaintiff James Shinn, it did not make any finding of fault with respect to plaintiffs’ direct claims. In any event, even had a finding of fault been made against defendant on plaintiffs’ direct claims, the threshold question of serious injury is a separate one that would still have to be resolved before proceeding to damages (see Reid v Brown, 308 AD2d 331 [2003], overruling Maldonado v DePalo, 277 AD2d 21 [2000] and Porter v SPD Trucking, 284 AD2d 181 [2001] [defendant’s default on plaintiffs summary judgment motion, which raised only issue of fault and not serious injury, did hot resolve serious injury question]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Gonzalez, JJ. Although the affirmation of defendant’s chiropractor, Dr. Cohen, was also unauthorized under CPLR 2106, the document was admissible since it also met the requirements of an affidavit—it was sworn to before a notary public.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Milton Tingling, J.), entered on or about June 20, 2002, which, inter alia, granted defendants-respondents’ motion to vacate or reargue a prior order, same court and Justice, entered February 11, 2002, granting plaintiffs application for a default judgment, unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, the motion to vacate or reargue the prior order granting plaintiff a default judgment denied, and such prior order reinstated. The order appealed from granted defendants’ motion to vacate or reargue a prior order that had granted plaintiff a default judgment based on defendants’ service of an answer approximately three months after it was due. We reverse the order appealed from, and reinstate the prior order granting the default judgment, on the ground that defendants-respondents never served an affidavit of a meritorious defense as required to obtain an order compelling acceptance of a late-served pleading under CPLR 3012 (d) (see Fidelity & Deposit Co. v Andersen & Co., 60 NY2d 693, 695 [1983]). The conclusory late-served answer, which had been verified by counsel rather than by an individual with knowledge of the facts, did not constitute a competent affidavit of the merits. Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Tom, Andrias, Sullivan and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Martin Marcus, J.), rendered May 22, 2002, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of burglary in the second degree, reckless endangerment in the first degree (two counts) and criminal possession of stolen property in the third degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to concurrent terms of 14 years on the burglary conviction and 3V2 to 7 years on each of the remaining convictions, unanimously modified, as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice, to vacate defendant’s adjudication as a second felony offender, and to reduce the sentence on each of the reckless endangerment and stolen property convictions to 2Vs to 7 years, and otherwise affirmed. Defendant was not entitled to the assignment of new counsel in connection with his motion to withdraw his guilty plea. There was no conflict of interest adversely affecting counsel’s representation of defendant (see Cuyler v Sullivan, 446 US 335, 348-350 [1980]). Counsel did not create a conflict by defending his performance, since the court’s familiarity with the proceedings, including the thorough plea allocution, permitted it to make an informed determination, without having to rely on defense counsel’s statements, that defendant’s claims of coercion and ineffective assistance were meritless (see e.g. People v Vasquez, 287 AD2d 334 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 709 [2002]; People v Rodriguez, 270 AD2d 110 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 803 [2000]). Defendant’s application to withdraw his guilty plea was properly denied after a proper inquiry in which defendant was afforded a sufficient opportunity to be heard. The record establishes that defendant’s plea was knowing, intelligent and voluntary. Defendant’s valid waiver of his right to appeal forecloses review of his excessive sentence claim as to the 14-year term imposed for the burglary conviction (People v Seaberg, 74 NY2d 1, 9-10 [1989]). Even if we were to find the waiver invalid, we would find no basis for reduction of the sentence. Finally, although defendant failed to preserve his argument that his adjudication as a second felony offender is based on a prior Florida conviction that is not the equivalent of a New York felony (see People v Samms, 95 NY2d 52, 57 [2000]), we reach the issue in the interest of justice, and modify to vacate the adjudication and to reduce the sentence, as indicated. The Florida felony of theft, of which defendant was convicted, includes temporary as well as permanent deprivations or appropriations of property (see Fla Stat Ann § 812.014 [1]). By contrast, the New York felony of grand larceny (Penal Law §§ 155.30—155.42) is restricted to substantially permanent deprivations or appropriations of property (see Penal Law § 155.00 [3], [4]; § 155.05 [1]). We note that the sentence on the burglary conviction was not affected by the second felony offender adjudication, and we therefore do not disturb it. Concur—Saxe, J.P, Rosenberger, Williams, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Marcy Kahn, J.), rendered November 20, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to a term of 5 to 10 years, unanimously affirmed. Defendant did not establish a proper foundation for impeaching the arresting officer by means of a purported prior inconsistent statement contained in a prisoner property form (see People v Wise, 46 NY2d 321, 326 [1978]; People v Duncan, 46 NY2d 74, 80-81 [1978], cert denied 442 US 910 [1979]). Accordingly, there was no violation of defendant’s right to confront witnesses (see Delaware v Van Arsdall, 475 US 673, 678-679 [1986]). Defendant’s argument that the document also qualified as a business record is unpreserved and we decline to review it in the interest of justice. Concur—Saxe, J.P, Rosenberger, Williams, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Howard Silver, J.), entered March 25, 2003, which denied defendants’ respective motion and cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims as against them, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff, an instructor at defendant Manhattan College, alleges that while crossing the campus she slipped and fell, sustaining injury, when a metal plate covering a trench excavated by defendant T. Moriarity & Sons, Inc. shifted underneath her foot. Factual questions preclude summary judgment in favor of defendant contractor; specifically, whether it created “a dangerous or defective condition” so as to impose liability (Trincere v County of Suffolk, 90 NY2d 976, 977 [1997]) and whether the resulting condition was open and obvious so as to obviate any duty to warn of the potential danger (see Thornhill v Toys “R” Us NYTEX, 183 AD2d 1071, 1072 [1992]). Although defendant college is not generally liable for the negligence of an independent contractor, its duty to keep its premises reasonably safe is nondelegable (see Kleeman v Rheingold, 81 NY2d 270, 273-274 [1993]; Rosenberg v Equitable Life Assur. Socy., 79 NY2d 663, 668 [1992]; see also Backiel v Citibank, N.A., 299 AD2d 504 [2002]). Thus, a question of fact remains whether the condition complained of existed for a sufficient period of time to permit the college to discover it and take remedial measures (see Garcia v New York City Hous. Auth., 183 AD2d 619, 620 [1992], citing Gordon v American Museum of Natural History, 67 NY2d 836, 837 [1986]). Concur—Andrias, J.P., Saxe, Williams, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Daniel FitzGerald, J.), rendered May 31, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree (two counts) and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree (two counts) and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to concurrent terms of 6 to 12 years, unanimously affirmed. The court’s Sandoval ruling, including its meticulous warning to defendant as to the circumstances under which his testimony would open the door to otherwise precluded inquiry, balanced the proper factors and was an appropriate exercise of discretion (see People v Hayes, 97 NY2d 203 [2002]; People v Walker, 83 NY2d 455, 458-459 [1994]; People v Pavao, 59 NY2d 282, 292 [1983]). The court appropriately determined that in the event defendant testified that he entered into plea agreements on prior cases because he was, in fact, guilty, and suggested that his decision to go to trial on the instant case implied his innocence, the prosecutor would be allowed to elicit the underlying facts of his prior crimes (see People v Cooper, 92 NY2d 968 [1998]). The strength of the prior cases was highly relevant to the issue of defendant’s actual motivation for pleading guilty. We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Concur— Saxe, J.E, Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order of disposition, Family Court, Bronx County (Harold Lynch, J.), entered on or about August 28, 2002, which adjudicated appellant a juvenile delinquent, upon a fact-finding determination that he committed an act which, if committed by an adult, would constitute the crime of attempted assault in the third degree, and placed him on probation for a period of 12 months, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Appellant’s right to a speedy trial was not violated since the fact-finding hearing commenced on the 60th day following his initial appearance (Family Ct Act § 340.1 [2]; Matter of Ango H., 286 AD2d 500, 501 [2001]; Matter of Sharnell J., 237 AD2d 290 [1997]). The various subdivisions of Family Court Act § 340.1 dealing with adjournments refer to adjournments of the commencement of a fact-finding hearing and not to delays in completing the hearing, which are addressed to the court’s sound discretion (see Matter of Eric W., 68 NY2d 633 [1986]; People v Foy, 32 NY2d 473, 476 [1973]; Matter of George T., 290 AD2d 396 [2002], revd on other grounds 99 NY2d 307 [2002]). The court’s discretion was properly exercised in this case. Concur—Saxe, J.P., Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Walter Tolub, J.), entered January 17, 2003, which, after a nonjury trial, inter alia, awarded plaintiffs, against defendants, jointly and severally, the principal sum of $225,000, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The trial court properly found that the parties’ 1996 agreement obligating defendants to repay plaintiffs the principal sum of $225,000 was never superseded, as alleged by defendants, by a 1998 agreement freeing them of the repayment obligation. The purported 1998 agreement, although drafted, was never signed by all the necessary parties, nor was there evidence of performance unequivocally referable to it (see Rose v Spa Realty Assoc., 42 NY2d 338 [1977]; H.P.I. Intl. v Kronen, 203 AD2d 325 [1994]; Tierney v Capricorn Invs., 189 AD2d 629 [1993], lv denied 81 NY2d 710 [1993]; Wasserstrom v Interstate Litho Corp., 114 AD2d 952 [1985]). We have considered defendants’ remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Saxe, J.E, Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Michael Obus, J.), rendered October 23, 2000, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of murder in the second degree, assault in the first degree, assault in the second degree (two counts), and criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, and sentencing him, as a second violent felony offender, to an aggregate term of 25 years to life, unanimously affirmed. Defendant’s motion to suppress identification evidence was properly denied. The record, which includes the photographs of the lineup, supports the court’s finding that the lineup participants were sufficiently similar in appearance so that defendant was not singled out for identification (see People v Chipp, 75 NY2d 327, 336 [1990], cert denied 498 US 833 [1990]). The lineup photographs show that age, height and weight differences among the lineup participants were barely noticeable. Were we to find any error in the court’s preclusion of certain misidentification evidence offered by defendant, we would find the error to be harmless because this evidence was cumulative of similar evidence that was received at trial and the evidence of defendant’s guilt was overwhelming. Concur—Saxe, J.R, Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (John Cataldo, J.), rendered January 3, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of robbery in the second degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to a term of eight years with five years postrelease supervision, unanimously affirmed. The 911 tapes that defendant sought to introduce did not qualify for admission under the present sense impression exception to the hearsay rule and were of minimal probative value with relation to the issues raised at trial (see People v Brown, 80 NY2d 729 [1993]). In any event, were we to find that exclusion of any of the tapes was error, we would find the error to be harmless (see People v Crimmins, 36 NY2d 230 [1975]). Since defendant did not assert a constitutional right to introduce this evidence, his constitutional argument is unpreserved (see People v Angelo, 88 NY2d 217, 222 [1996]; People v Gonzalez, 54 NY2d 729 [1981]), and we decline to review it in the interest of justice. Were we to review this claim, we would find no violation of defendant’s right to present a defense. The victim’s statement to the police, made minutes after the incident, was properly admitted as an excited utterance because the evidence, including testimony as to the victim’s demeanor, established that he was still under the influence of the stress of the incident (see People v Alvarado, 294 AD2d 155 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 708 [2002]). We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Concur— Saxe, J.E, Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Leland DeGrasse, J.), entered January 11, 2002, which, inter alia, denied defendant Orenstein’s motion to dismiss the complaint on the ground that plaintiff lacked capacity to sue on behalf of the condominium’s unit owners; order, same court and Justice, entered May 1, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the brief, granted plaintiffs motion for summary judgment dismissing the fourth, seventh and eighth counterclaims, denied Orenstein’s motion to treat the individual members of the board as counterclaim defendants, denied his cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the second, third and fourth causes of action and the second and third affirmative defenses, and denied his cross motion for partial summary judgment on his counterclaim for attorneys’ fees; and order and judgment (one paper), same court and Justice, entered November 15, 2002, which granted plaintiffs motion for summary judgment and denied Orenstein’s cross motion for summary judgment and declared that plaintiff had the sole discretion to regulate the use and operation of the residential elevators in the condominium and that neither Orenstein nor any tenant or owner of the commercial unit in question may use the residential elevators without the prior approval of the board of managers of the condominium to provide access for disabled workers to or from the commercial unit or for any other purpose, unanimously affirmed, with one bill of costs. The condominium board is empowered to prosecute this action pursuant to Real Property Law § 339-dd. CPLR 3019 (d) does not provide for the joinder of additional parties, and defendant Orenstein’s motion to add the individual board members as counterclaim defendants was properly denied. The board may regulate the use of the residential elevators pursuant to the condominium declaration and bylaws. The law of the case doctrine is inapplicable to Orenstein’s contentions with respect to his first and second counterclaims since he never moved for judgment on these claims. Therefore, he was not entitled to summary judgment for attorneys’ fees incurred in the prosecution of these claims. Orenstein’s cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the second, third and fourth causes of action was properly denied since issues of fact exist with respect to the work performed, compliance with the bylaws and reimbursement for the condominium’s professional and legal fees and for the alleged nuisance created by construction work. The fourth and eighth counterclaims were properly dismissed since, inter alia, they are duplicative of the third and sixth counterclaims, respectively. We have considered defendant Orenstein’s remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Saxe, J.P., Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Stanley Green, J.), entered October 24, 2002, which granted the motion of defendant A.J. Pegno Construction for summary judgment on its claim for contractual indemnification from defendant Grace Industries, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Plaintiff engineer was allegedly injured as he jumped out of the way of a backhoe operated by an employee of defendant subcontractor Grace Industries in connection with Grace’s installation of a water main at a construction site. The subcontract pursuant to which Grace’s work was performed provided that Grace would indemnify defendant contractor A.J. Pegno for liability arising from Grace’s work or operations, irrespective of its fault. Since there is no evidence that plaintiffs accident was attributable to negligence on A.J. Pegno’s part and it is clear that, to the extent the accident was caused by something other than plaintiffs own negligence, it arose out of Grace’s work or operations, A.J. Pegno was properly awarded summary judgment on its claim for contractual indemnification (see Brown v Two Exch. Plaza, 76 NY2d 172, 180-181 [1990]; Masciotta v Morse Diesel Intl., 303 AD2d 309 [2003]). Concur — Saxe, J.P, Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Louis York, J.), entered November 19, 2002, which granted plaintiffs motion to confirm a referee’s report and directed that plaintiff have judgment against defendant in the amount of (1) $195,018.33, with respect to a certain promissory note, with interest from September 6, 2001, and (2) $18,288.64, with respect to defendant’s personal guarantee of a certain loan, with interest from September 6, 2001, unanimously modified, on the facts, to the extent of directing that plaintiff have judgment against defendant (1) in the amount of $325,918.33, representing $130,900 in principal plus $195,018.33 in prejudgment interest due from the date of defendant’s default on July 15, 1988 to June 22, 2001, and (2) in the sum of $43,855.90, representing $25,567.26 in principal plus $18,288.64 in prejudgment interest from inception of the guaranteed loan on July 19, 1993 to June 22, 2001, for a total of $369,774.23, with interest from June 23, 2001, and to grant plaintiff’s motion to confirm a referee’s report finding that plaintiff incurred reasonable attorneys’ "fees in the amount of $9,196, and to award judgment thereon, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. The Clerk is directed to enter judgment accordingly. Plaintiff is entitled to modification of the order to include the amount of the principal on which the referee calculated interest and to reflect interest accruing after June 22, 2001, the date on which the referee calculated the principal amounts owed. Confirmation is also warranted as to an additional referee’s report, which determined that defendant owed plaintiff $9,196 in counsel fees. Concur — Saxe, J.E, Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Douglas McKeon, J.), entered on or about August 9, 2002, inter alia, granting defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The proof demonstrating that plaintiff, although hired by third-party defendant OneSource, worked exclusively under the direct supervision and control of defendant at its Pleasantville campus, with defendant possessing the plenary right to have plaintiff discharged, to dictate plaintiff’s work hours, wages, vacation schedule, work assignments and the manner of their completion, established that plaintiff was a special employee of defendant (see Thompson v Grumman Aerospace Corp., 78 NY2d 553 [1991]). Accordingly, this action against defendant to recover for injuries sustained by plaintiff in the course of his employment is barred by Workers’ Compensation Law § 11 (see Gannon v JWP Forest Elec. Corp., 275 AD2d 231 [2000]; Cameli v Pace Univ., 131 AD2d 419 [1987]). Concur—Saxe, J.P., Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Kenneth Thompson, J.), entered on or about May 16, 2002, which granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the action as time-barred, unanimously affirmed, without costs. This action for podiatric malpractice, commenced in November 1999, was properly dismissed as time-barred in light of testimonial and documentary evidence indicating that plaintiff was last treated by defendant doctor in October 1996 (see CPLR 214-a). Although plaintiff contends that her treatment with defendant continued beyond that date, the record does not contain evidence probative of that contention, much less that the claimed treatment continued sufficiently long to come within the statutory period (see e.g. De Peralta v Presbyterian Hosp., 121 AD2d 346 [1986]). We have considered plaintiffs’ remaining arguments and find them unavailing. Concur—Saxe, J.P, Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Edward Lehner, J.), entered May 20, 2003, dismissing the complaint as against defendant-respondent club owner (defendant) pursuant to an order which, in an action by plaintiff patron against defendant for personal injuries sustained when plaintiff was assaulted on defendant’s premises by another patron wielding a box cutter, granted defendant’s motion to set aside the verdict in plaintiffs favor and directed judgment in favor of defendant as a matter of law, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff testified that the attack occurred immediately after he refused the assailant’s demand to hand over the gold chain he was wearing. Judgment notwithstanding the verdict was properly awarded defendant in the absence of any evidence of any prior criminal activity at its club (see Jacqueline S. v City of New York, 81 NY2d 288, 294-295 [1993]; Florman v City of New York, 293 AD2d 120, 125-126 [2002]). In any event, even if the anticipated presence of large crowds of young people consuming alcohol at a “hip-hop” club in the early morning hours made this type of targeted criminal attack foreseeable (but see Florman, 293 AD2d at 125, distinguishing Rotz v City of New York, 143 AD2d 301 [1988]; Maheshwari v City of New York, 307 AD2d 797, 798-799 [2003], following Florman and also distinguishing Rotz; Lewis v Jemanda N.Y. Corp., 277 AD2d 134 [2000]), thus imposing a duty on defendant to take reasonable security measures to minimize the danger (see Jacqueline S., 81 NY2d at 294), there is no evidence from which the jury could have inferred that defendant breached that duty. Defendant, in fact, took security measures against criminal attacks involving weapons, including the hiring of state-licensed security guards who were present throughout the . club in significant numbers, and who conducted patdowns and operated metal detectors at the entrance. Admittedly, the detectors were not set to a level sensitive enough to detect small metal objects, such as keys and, so it would appear, box cutters. But because plaintiff offered no expert testimony in the field of security, the jury could only speculate as to any deficiencies in the security provided by defendant, and what additional safety measures, if any, could reasonably have been taken to prevent this type of crime (see Ricard v Roseland Amusement & Dev. Corp., 215 AD2d 240 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 805 [1995]; Florman, 293 AD2d at 127). Based on this record, there is no valid line of reasoning by which the jury could have concluded that defendant failed to provide reasonable security against the type of crime that resulted in plaintiff’s injuries. Concur—Saxe, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Louis York, J.), entered April 9, 2003, which granted defendant’s pre-answer motion to dismiss the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff real estate broker entered into an exclusive brokerage agreement with defendant Marc Roberts, identified in the contract as the owner, providing for a 5% commission for the sale of a condominium unit at a stated price of “$525,000 or less.” Payment of the commission is predicated on closing of title or a willful failure to close. Notwithstanding the three-month period granting plaintiff the exclusive right to sell, the words “Owner Buyer exception Maureen and Stewart Lande” are handwritten at the top of the agreement and initialed by the parties. Within the specified three-month period, plaintiff produced a buyer alleged to be ready, willing and able to purchase the condominium unit. However, it was subsequently conveyed, also within the exclusive three-month period, to Maureen and Stewart Lande, prompting this action to recover the brokerage commission. It is apparent that the brokerage agreement expressly excepted the purchasers from its operation. Therefore, plaintiff s contention that the failure of a condition precedent vitiates the contract (Hicks v Bush, 10 NY2d 488 [1962]; Calamari and Perillo, Contracts § 138, at 226 [1st ed]; Restatement of Contracts § 250 [a]) and defendant’s assertion that recovery of the commission is unavailable in the absence of a contract of sale (see Graff v Billet, 64 NY2d 899 [1985]; see also Eastern Consol. Props, v Adelaide Realty Corp., 95 NY2d 785 [2000]) are immaterial, and the action was properly dismissed (CPLR 3211 [a] [1]). Concur — Saxe, J.E, Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Charles Ramos, J.), entered February 4, 2003, which granted plaintiffs motion pursuant to CPLR 5015 (a) to vacate a prior order of the same court and Justice dismissing the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3126 for failure to comply with court-ordered discovery, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The motion court had the power to vacate, pursuant to CPLR 5015 (a), an order previously issued by it dismissing a complaint pursuant to CPLR 3126 (Alvarez v Fiat Realty Corp., 157 AD2d 456 [1990]), and properly exercised that power in this case where plaintiffs assertions that prior counsel withheld information as to its discovery obligations are sufficient to establish the excuse of law office failure and defendants have failed to offer sufficient evidence that they have been prejudiced by the passage of time. Concur — Saxe, J.E, Sullivan, Rosenberger, Friedman and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Laura Ward, J), rendered on or about October 8, 2002, unanimously affirmed. Application by appellant’s counsel to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Saunders, 52 AD2d 833 [1976]). We have reviewed this record and agree with appellant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous points which could be raised on this appeal. Pursuant to Criminal Procedure Law § 460.20, defendant may apply for leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals by making application to the Chief Judge of that Court and by submitting such application to the Clerk of that Court or to a Justice of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of this Department on reasonable notice to the respondent within 30 days after service of a copy of this order, with notice of entry. Denial of the application for permission to appeal by the judge or justice first applied to is final and no new application may thereafter be made to any other judge or justice. Concur— Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Martin Marcus, J.), rendered June 7, 2000, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of burglary in the first degree, attempted robbery in the first degree and attempted robbery in the second degree, and sentencing him to concurrent terms of 10 years, 10 years and 7 years, respectively, unanimously affirmed. The court properly admitted into evidence two pistols that were discovered, the next day, in the house where the crime occurred. That circumstance, when viewed in light of all the other evidence, could allow the jury to readily draw a reasonable conclusion that these were the pistols used in the crime (see People v Mirenda, 23 NY2d 439, 452-454 [1969]; People v Sosa, 255 AD2d 236 [1998], lv denied 93 NY2d 979 [1999]; People v Malcolm, 216 AD2d 118 [1995]). The issues raised by defendant, including those relating to the ability of the witnesses to identify the weapons, and the circumstances under which the weapons came to be found, go to weight and not admissibility. We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Concur— Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Jeffrey Atlas, J.), rendered October 15, 2001, convicting defendant James Otano, after a jury trial, of robbery in the first and second degrees, and sentencing him to concurrent terms of six years, unanimously affirmed. Judgment, same court and Justice, rendered November 13, 2001, convicting defendant Frank Young, after a jury trial, of robbery in the first and second degrees, and sentencing him to concurrent terms of five years, unanimously affirmed. The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendants’ mistrial motions made after the prosecutor’s summation. The challenged portions of the summation constituted fair comment on the evidence, made within the broad bounds of permissible advocacy (see People v Overlee, 236 AD2d 133 [1997], lv denied 91 NY2d 976 [1998]; People v D'Alessandro, 184 AD2d 114, 118-119 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 884 [1993]). The prosecutor properly responded to defendants’ attacks on the victim’s credibility, and drew reasonable inferences from the evidence that were not unduly speculative. The prosecutor’s remarks with respect to the absence of a potential defense witness were responsive to defense arguments as well as being supported by a sufficient foundation (see People v Tankleff, 84 NY2d 992, 994-995 [1994]). Defendant Otano’s claims with respect to the prosecutor’s cross-examination are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would find that the challenged portions of the cross-examination of Otano were permissible. We perceive no basis for reducing the sentences. Concur— Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Judith Gische, J.), entered March 15, 2002, which, after a nonjury trial, inter alia, awarded plaintiff distributive shares of defendant’s law practice and a condominium, denied defendant a distributive share of plaintiffs business, denied defendant maintenance and awarded plaintiff counsel fees, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The husband’s defunct law practice was properly considered a marital asset, with uncollected receivables, because, among other reasons, he failed to disclose, and attempted to conceal, marital assets (see Maharam v Maharam, 245 AD2d 94, 95 [1997]). Under the particular circumstances presented, the defunct practice was properly valued as of the date of the action’s commencement (see Poster v Poster, 287 AD2d 411 [2001]). The trial court properly denied the husband a distributive share in his wife’s business, which was separate property established before the marriage, notwithstanding the claim that the husband had contributed to it, since the husband made no showing in satisfaction of his burden to demonstrate the baseline value of the business and the extent of its appreciation (see Capasso v Capasso, 129 AD2d 267, 282 [1987], lv denied and dismissed 70 NY2d 988 [1988]). The Brooklyn condominium was properly found to be a marital asset, the husband having failed to rebut the presumption that the property, acquired during the parties’ marriage, was marital property (see Solomon v Solomon, 307 AD2d 558 [2003]). The denial of maintenance was appropriate under the circumstances. The husband, who, despite his disbarment, has law-related and business talents, failed to demonstrate that he was physically disabled from using those and other abilities. Although it is undisputed that he has a heart condition, it is abundantly clear that he was not consequently disabled from working. Finally, the award to the wife of 40% of her counsel fees was appropriate, since the husband, a former matrimonial practitioner, was at a distinct advantage, and not only acted frivolously in the conduct of litigation, but failed to provide discovery in a studied and deceptive attempt to secrete assets (cf. Silverman v Silverman, 304 AD2d 41, 48 [2003]). The wife’s attorney was in substantial compliance with the rules for filing retainers in matrimonial actions (see Flanagan v Flanagan, 267 AD2d 80 [1999]). We have considered defendant’s other contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment (denominated an order), Supreme Court, New York County (Sheila Abdus-Salaam, J.), entered June 5, 2002, which denied petitioner’s application to annul respondents’ determination denying her accident disability retirement benefits and dismissed the petition, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Respondent Police Commissioner found that petitioner’s psychological disabilities did not arise solely out of a 1994 shooting incident in which petitioner killed one of three men attempting to hold up a beauty parlor in which she was a customer. The record contains credible evidence to support the findings of the Medical Board of the New York City Employees’ Retirement System as to the cause of petitioner’s disability, and the Board of Trustees was entitled to rely on the Board’s recommendation as to causation, “even in the face of conflicting evidence” (Matter of Bevers v New York City Employees’ Retirement Sys., 179 AD2d 489, 490 [1992], lv denied 79 NY2d 758 [1992]). Thus, respondents’ determination was not arbitrary or capricious (Matter of Borenstein v New York City Employees’ Retirement Sys., 88 NY2d 756, 760-761 [1996]). Concur— Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Shirley Werner Kornreich, J), entered October 31, 2002, which, after a nonjury trial, awarded plaintiffs damages upon their claim for breach of fiduciary duty, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The trial testimony overwhelmingly established that plaintiffs and defendant entered into a joint venture to acquire an apartment for their mutual benefit, and that each party contributed to the apartment’s purchase (see Richbell Info. Servs. v Jupiter Partners, 309 AD2d 288, 298 [2003]). Accordingly, the trial court properly found that when defendant sold the apartment without plaintiffs’ consent, and retained the proceeds of the sale for himself, he breached his fiduciary duty to plaintiffs. Although plaintiff Gene Kazlow is a member of the law firm representing plaintiffs, that circumstance alone did not require the grant of defendant’s motion for the firm’s disqualification (see Talvy v American Red Cross in Greater N.Y., 205 AD2d 143, 152 [1994], affd 87 NY2d 826 [1995]; Matter of Owen & Mandolfo v Davidoff of Geneva, 197 AD2d 370 [1993], lv denied 83 NY2d 751 [1994]; Sokolow, Dunaud, Mercadier & Carreras v Lacker, 299 AD2d 64, 76 [2002]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Douglas McKeon, J.), entered July 1, 2002, which, in a products liability action, insofar as appealed from, granted the motion of defendant-respondent Sears for summary judgment dismissing the complaint as against it, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Sears’ evidence sufficiently establishes that the allegedly defective ladder was made of magnesium, that Sears no longer sold magnesium ladders at the time plaintiffs employer claimed to have purchased the ladder from Sears, and that the ladder in any event was a model type never sold by Sears. Such evidence consisted largely of the relevant pages of Sears catalogues, and the affidavit of the plant manager and chief engineer of the only manufacturer of magnesium ladders at the time plaintiff’s employer claims to have purchased the ladder. This witness has personal knowledge of the design features of all of the manufacturer’s ladders, and, based on measurements and photographs taken by Sears of parts of the ladder that plaintiffs employer did not discard, was competent to assert that the ladder was a model type never listed in a Sears catalogue. Against this, the only evidence offered by plaintiff to show that Sears sold the ladder to his employer were his employer’s statements that he purchased the ladder from a Sears catalogue about 15 years before the accident. Unsupported by any objective evidence such as receipts, manuals or warranty information, the employer’s statements do not raise a genuine issue of fact as to whether he purchased the ladder from Sears (see Whelan v GTE Sylvania, 182 AD2d 446 [1992]). In view of the foregoing, plaintiff’s remaining claim that he was improperly sanctioned for his employer’s spoliation of the ladder is academic. Concur— Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Emily Goodman, J.), entered September 24, 2002, which denied petitioners’ joint application brought pursuant to CPLR article 78 to annul respondents’ determination dismissing petitioners from their employment as probationary police officers and dismissed the petition, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Respondents properly dismissed petitioners from their probationary employment when reliable drug tests established that they had used cocaine, and we find no evidence of bad faith or illegality (see Matter of Johnson v Katz, 68 NY2d 649 [1986]; Matter of Brown v City of New York, 250 AD2d 546 [1998]). Petitioners’ arguments concerning alleged disparate treatment of a probationary officer claimed to be similarly situated to petitioners are unsupported by the record. Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Appeal from order, Supreme Court, New York County (Edward Lehner, J.), entered November 14, 2002, which, inter alia, granted the motion of the Angerman defendants and defendant Samelson, and the motion of defendant Robinson, to dismiss the complaint, deemed to be an appeal from the ensuing judgment, same court and Justice, entered December 13, 2002, dismissing the complaint against those defendants, and, as so considered, the judgment is unanimously affirmed, with costs. The motion court properly found that plaintiff could not demonstrate that he justifiably relied on defendants’ alleged representations regarding the value of the goodwill and asset appreciation of the shares he claimed he was defrauded into selling at a lower price than was later obtained by defendant shareholders, since defendants had no special knowledge of the facts and plaintiff failed to take advantage of his clearly available opportunity to investigate (see Abrahami v UPC Constr. Co., 224 AD2d 231, 234 [1996]; Rodas v Mandaras, 159 AD2d 341, 343 [1990]). Plaintiffs other causes of action were properly dismissed as duplicative of the deficient fraud claim. In view of the foregoing, it is unnecessary to address the other grounds urged for dismissal. We have considered plaintiff’s other contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Helen Freedman, J.), entered December 3, 2002, which granted plaintiffs motion to set aside the jury verdict and directed a new trial unless, inter alia, defendant stipulated to an award of $150,000 for future pain and suffering, $109,638 for future custodial care and expenses and to reallocate fault, 50% against plaintiff and 50% against defendant, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The 75-year-old plaintiff injured her knee when, while walking hurriedly, she slipped on water that had accumulated on the floor of defendant’s supermarket premises. While we recognize that “the discretionary power to set aside a jury verdict and order a new trial must be exercised with considerable caution, for in the absence of indications that substantial justice has not been done, a successful litigant is entitled to the benefits of a favorable jury verdict” (Nicastro v Park, 113 AD2d 129, 133 [1985]), here the trial court properly concluded that the jury’s apportionment of fault, 65% to plaintiff and 35% to defendant, was against the weight of the evidence. The record shows that although defendant had been aware for some time that accumulations of water would form in the area of plaintiffs fall due, in part, to rusted pipes, it did nothing to remedy the recurrent hazard or the poor lighting conditions in the surrounding area that enhanced the hazard’s danger. Also contrary to the weight of the evidence was the jury’s failure to award damages for future pain and suffering and custodial care. The medical testimony to the effect that plaintiffs pain and suffering might have been partially alleviated if she had agreed to an operation to remove the cerclage wire that had been surgically implanted to stabilize her fractures immediately following the accident did not support the conclusion, apparently drawn by the jury, that plaintiffs continued pain and inability to resume her pre-accident, self-sufficient lifestyle were entirely attributable to her decision not to submit to the additional surgery. Nor did plaintiffs decision not to undergo further surgery justify the jury’s determination to make no award for future custodial care, the need for which in the aftermath of plaintiffs accident was well substantiated on the trial record. Concur—Nardelli, J.E, Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Amended judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Joan Lobis, J.), entered August 8, 2002, after a nonjury trial, which granted the parties a divorce, distributed the marital property and awarded child support, and order, same court and Justice, entered April 2, 2003, which, inter alia, denied defendant’s motion for resettlement and modification of the amended judgment, unanimously modified, on the law and the facts, to grant defendant’s motion for resettlement and modification to the extent of increasing defendant’s distributive award by $1,574,805, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Order, same court and Justice, entered January 7, 2003, which, inter alia, denied, in part, defendant’s motion for additional counsel fees, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The trial court correctly found more persuasive the valuations offered by the court-appointed neutral appraisers with regard to plaintiff’s ownership interest in AIGTG, the Paris apartments, the projections regarding the BRRC golf club and residential development project and his art and antiques collection. Rejection of almost all the opinions of defendant’s retained appraisers justified denial of her motion to increase counsel fees to pay those experts. The underlying basis for the trial court’s award of child support, in accordance with the Child Support Standards Act (Domestic Relations Law § 240 [1-b]), is sufficiently clear from the August 2000 pendente lite decision, which was incorporated in the amended judgment, and is part of the appellate record (see Finkelstein v Finkelstein, 268 AD2d 273, 275 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 703 [2001]). With regard to plaintiffs capital loss carryforward, there is insufficient evidence of that asset’s value to defendant to support a distribution of any portion of the asset to her. Courts cannot be expected to speculate on such calculations (see Culnan v Culnan, 142 AD2d 805 [1988], lv dismissed 73 NY2d 994 [1989]). Defendant’s contention that she is entitled to prejudgment interest was properly rejected by the trial court. There is no automatic entitlement to prejudgment interest, under CPLR 5001, in matrimonial litigation, and no award was warranted here. We note in this connection the absence of evidence that misconduct on plaintiff’s part deprived defendant of marital property (see Haymes v Haymes, 298 AD2d 117, 118 [2002]). Finally, the record establishes that the primary residence of the parties’ eight-year-old child is in Manhattan, where she goes to school and lives for most of the year. Defendant has not established entitlement to the Southampton home on First Neck Lane, which was essentially a weekend and summer vacation residence, and was part of plaintiffs separate property, due to his ownership of it prior to the marriage. We modify only to correct three errors in the amended judgment, undisputed in substance. First, plaintiff does not deny receiving a duplicate separate property credit for renovating the First Neck Lane residence, resulting in a $246,132 reduction in defendant’s distributive award. Second, while plaintiff was entitled to retain intact his vintage automobile collection, defendant should have received her 40% interest in the value of that collection, thus increasing her distributive award by an additional $538,000. And finally, plaintiff conceded, before the trial court, that defendant was inadvertently shortchanged a separate property credit in the amount of $790,673. Accordingly, the motion for resettlement and modification should have been granted in part, and the amended judgment modified to increase defendant’s distributive award by $1,574,805. We have considered defendant’s remaining arguments and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.E, Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Louise Gruner Gans, J), entered October 19, 2001, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the brief, denied plaintiffs motion for an order setting aside the verdict and granting a new trial upon the ground that his trial application to proceed pro se should have been granted, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Flaintiff, having chosen to act through retained counsel, was barred from proceeding pro se except by consent of the court (see CFLR 321 [a]). That consent was properly withheld. Flaintiff did not request to represent himself until midtrial and the record demonstrates that permitting plaintiff, whose courtroom demeanor had been volatile and on occasion irrational, to immediately take over the representational responsibilities until then competently discharged by his attorney would have unnecessarily prolonged the trial and introduced a prohibitive risk of jury confusion and mistrial. Concur— Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Walter Tolub, J.), entered July 18, 2002, which, inter alia, granted defendant-respondent newspaper’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The complaint was properly dismissed for lack of evidence sufficient to raise an issue of fact as to whether defendant-respondent was grossly irresponsible in publishing the offending article (see Gaeta v New York News, 62 NY2d 340, 345 [1984]). We have considered and rejected plaintiffs’ other claims. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Ellerin and Marlow, JJ.
Order of disposition, Family Court, Bronx County (Myrna Martinez-Perez, J.), entered on or about October 22, 2002, which adjudicated appellant a juvenile delinquent, upon a fact-finding determination that he committed acts which, if committed by an adult, would constitute the crime of four counts of sexual abuse in the first degree, and placed him on probation for one year, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The court’s finding was based on legally sufficient evidence and was not against the weight of the evidence. The court properly permitted the seven-year-old victim to give sworn testimony since her responses established that she sufficiently understood the difference between truth and falsity, the moral duty to tell the truth and the consequences of lying (see People v Nisoff, 36 NY2d 560, 565-566 [1975]; People v Cordero, 257 AD2d 372 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 968 [1999]). The colloquy concerning the victim’s swearability consisted primarily of nonleading questions and detailed, intelligent responses. Issues of credibility, including the weight to be given to inconsistencies in testimony, were properly considered by the court and we perceive no basis to disturb its determinations. Concur— Nardelli, J.P., Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Marcy Friedman, J.), entered April 28, 2003, which granted plaintiffs’ motion to compel defendant law firm and nonparty appellants Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. (PIA) and Legion Insurance Company to produce documents, subject to in camera review of those documents listed in appellants’ respective privilege logs, and directed defendant law firm to serve answers to plaintiffs’ interrogatories to which objection had been raised based upon the attorney-client privilege, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The complaint alleges that defendant law firm assisted nonparty appellants “in a scheme to convert Ulico trustee and fiduciary liability insurance policyholders to Legion coverage” for appellants’ mutual benefit. Conflict of interest is asserted during the firm’s representation of plaintiffs as the result of its advice and assistance to PIA “(a) in establishing its relationship with Legion and (b) in breaching its duties to Ulico.” The attorney-client privilege (CPLR 4503 [a]; 3101 [b], [c]) “may give way to strong public policy considerations” (Spectrum Sys. Intl. Corp. v Chemical Bank, 78 NY2d 371, 380 [1991], citing Matter of Priest v Hennessy, 51 NY2d 62, 67-68 [1980]), and may not be invoked where it involves client communications that may have been in furtherance of a fraudulent scheme, an alleged breach of fiduciary duty or an accusation of some other wrongful conduct (see Surgical Design Corp. v Correa, 284 AD2d 528, 529 [2001]; Woodson v American Tr. Ins. Co., 280 AD2d 328 [2001]; see also In re John Doe, Inc., 13 F3d 633, 636 [2d Cir 1994]; Madanes v Madanes, 199 FRD 135, 145-146 [SD NY 2001]). Furthermore, a trial court is vested with broad discretion to supervise the discovery process, and its determinations in that respect will not be disturbed in the absence of demonstrated abuse (see United Airlines v Ogden N.Y. Servs., 305 AD2d 239, 240 [2003]; Cho v 401-403 57th St. Realty Corp., 300 AD2d 174, 176 [2002]). Testimony regarding conversations between principals of nonparty appellants and a member of the firm as well as the settlement of a related federal action brought by Ulico against PIA and Legion supports the IAS court’s conclusion that probable cause exists that a “fraud was attempted or committed and that the communications were in furtherance thereof,” warranting an exception to the attorney-client privilege in favor of disclosure. Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Tom, Mazzarelli and Marlow, JJ.
Respondent reinstated as an attorney and counselor-at-law in the State of New York, effective the date hereof. No opinion. Concur — Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Saxe, Ellerin and Williams, JJ. [See 230 AD2d 366.]
Respondent reinstated as an attorney and counselor-at-law in the State of New York, effective the date hereof. No opinion. Concur — Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Saxe, Ellerin and Williams, JJ. [See 257 AD2d 127.]
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Karla Moskowitz, J.), entered May 16, 2002, granting defendant’s cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and denying plaintiffs motion for partial summary judgment or to dismiss defendant’s affirmative defenses, modified, on the law, to deny defendant’s cross motion as to plaintiffs first cause of action, for breach of contract, except insofar as that cause seeks damages for the present value of future installment payments not yet due, and to reinstate that cause to that extent, and to grant plaintiffs motion insofar as to dismiss the second, third, fourth and fifth affirmative defenses, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff is a former partner of defendant’s predecessor, Rogers & Wells'. At the time plaintiff left the firm, the Rogers & Wells Retirement Plan for Partners stated that partners aged 60-64 would be eligible for early retirement. The Rogers & Wells Partnership Agreement, which incorporated the Retirement Plan by reference, provided that the partnership’s executive committee could “enter into a written agreement” to pay not in excess of “Normal” or “Mandatory” retirement benefits to a partner who, “at the specific written request of the Executive Committee,” withdraws or retires other than in accordance with “Normal Retirement” (ages 65-69) or “Mandatory Retirement” (age 70). The retirement benefits available to a partner who takes normal or mandatory retirement included: four years of payments equal to 37.5% of the distribution of partnership profits the partner would have received had he not retired; participation in the firm’s medical and life insurance plans; use of office space and secretarial assistance; and supplemental retirement payments (SRPs), which are paid for life, beginning in the fifth year after the partner’s retirement. The Retirement Plan stated that SRPs “shall not be paid to a Partner who takes Early Retirement, except at the specific written request of the Executive Committee.” Plaintiff contends that in January 1995, when he was 57 years old, he and the firm entered into the following oral agreement: in exchange for plaintiffs departure by the end of the year, he would be deemed to have taken early retirement at the executive committee’s specific written request, pursuant to the Retirement Plan and the Partnership Agreement, and he would be entitled to, inter alia, SRPs. Plaintiff duly departed the firm at the end of 1995, received the four years of 37.5% distribution payments, participated in the firm’s health and life insurance plans, and utilized firm office space and secretarial assets. In addition, Edward O’Sullivan, the firm’s Director of Finance/ CFO, testified at his deposition that James Asher, the managing partner, told him that the executive committee had approved SRPs for plaintiff, and it is undisputed that, in conjunction with outside actuaries, the firm’s controller, Vidya Rajpal, prepared and sent to plaintiff a memorandum calculating the SRPs he would receive. Nevertheless, defendant refused to pay plaintiff SRPs when they became due on January 1, 2000. Contrary to the assertions of defendant and the dissent, article X (b) of the Partnership Agreement, which states that if a partner takes early retirement the executive committee “may . . . enter into a written agreement with the . . . Partner authorizing payment” of benefits in addition to those set forth in article X (a), such as SRPs, does not bar plaintiffs claim as a matter of law. Article X (b) does not declare that the only way in which a partner may receive SRPs and other amounts beyond those provided in article X (a) is by written agreement; in fact, it is undisputed that plaintiff received certain profit distributions, which are also not mentioned in article X (a), without a written agreement. In addition, plaintiff submitted evidence that at least two partners who took early retirement receive SRPs, even though they do not have written agreements with defendant, a fact overlooked by the dissent. Similarly, and contrary to the dissent’s interpretation, section 5.4 of the Retirement Plan does not prohibit the payment of SRPs in the absence of a written agreement. Section 5.4 states: “[SRPs] shall not be paid to a Partner who takes Early Retirement, except at the specific written request of the Executive Committee.” The phrase “specific written request” refers to “Early Retirement,” not the payment of SRPs, and thus the provision should be read as conveying the sentiment that SRPs shall not be paid to a partner who takes early retirement unless the early retirement was at the specific written request of the executive committee; the provision is silent as to whether a written agreement to pay SRPs is required. That conclusion is compelled by logic (the executive committee would not “request” a retiring partner to permit the firm to pay him SRPs) and by the use of the identical phrase in article X (b) of the Partnership Agreement with respect to early retirement but not the payment of SRPs. Section 2.5 (b) of the Retirement Plan, cited by the dissent, merely references section 5, and thus adds nothing. Section 6.1 of the Retirement Plan does state that Senior Counsel “shall enter into a written agreement with the Firm containing provisions approved by the Executive Committee, including [a noncompete clause]” in “exchange for receiving [SRPs] and all other benefits under this Plan.” However, the Retirement Plan does not mandate any particular time requirement and, as already noted, Rogers & Wells paid “all other benefits” to plaintiff without a written noncompete agreement. To the extent the Partnership Agreement and Retirement Plan appear to prohibit the payment of SRPs to a partner taking early retirement unless that early retirement was at the specific written request of the executive committee, neither the Partnership Agreement nor the Retirement Plan prohibits oral modifications, and article XXII of the Partnership Agreement specifically permits oral modifications. For that same reason, General Obligations Law § 15-301 does not bar plaintiffs claim. Insofar as the dissent argues that plaintiff was not even a “Senior Counsel,” because he was not yet 60 years old (the commencement age of “Early Retirement” as set forth in the Retirement Plan) at the time he withdrew from the firm, it is undisputed that Rogers & Wells executed a “Change of Status Form” listing plaintiff as “Senior Counsel,” a term the dissent acknowledges is defined as a partner who “has retired in accordance with the provisions of [the Plan].” That plaintiff was designated a Senior Counsel, even though he had not yet attained the age of 60, also refutes the dissent’s proposition that the Retirement Plan and Partnership Agreement could not be orally modified. We also disagree with defendant’s argument that the agreement alleged by plaintiff was an unenforceable agreement to agree. To be sufficiently definite, an agreement need not contain a dollar amount; if it contains a method for calculating the amount, that suffices (see e.g. Cobble Hill Nursing Home v Henry & Warren Corp., 74 NY2d 475, 483 [1989], cert denied 498 US 816 [1990]; Joseph Martin, Jr., Delicatessen v Schumacher, 52 NY2d 105, 110 [1981]). The Retirement Plan specifies in detail how to calculate SRPs. Defendant argues, and the dissent agrees, that the statute of frauds bars the alleged oral agreement, since SRPs are paid for life, beginning in the fifth year of retirement, and thus are not capable of complete performance within one year. However, the statute of frauds is not a bar if “the acts to be performed beyond a year [in the instant case, payment of SRPs] concern only enforcement of . . . existing . . . rights under . . . written agreements [in the instant case, the Rogers & Wells Retirement Plan for Partners]” (Kane v Rodgers, 21 AD2d 773 [1964], affd 15 NY2d 544 [1964]). Here, the alleged oral agreement was to change plaintiff’s status from partner to early retirement (at the specific written request of the executive committee) with entitlement to SRPs. That agreement was fully performable within one year. The payment of SRPs was governed by the written Retirement Plan, which contains detailed instructions on how to calculate SRPs. Because plaintiff’s rights to SRPs under the Retirement Plan became fixed once he was deemed to have taken early retirement at the specific written request of the executive committee (if this was, indeed, the parties’ oral agreement), and because computation of the actual amount of plaintiffs SRPs would be “a mere ministerial act,” the fact that the payments wpuld extend into the future does not cause the statute of frauds to bar plaintiffs claim (see Pando v Fernandez, 127 Misc 2d 224, 227 [1984], revd on other grounds 118 AD2d 474 [1986]; see also Cron v Hargro Fabrics, 91 NY2d 362, 369-370 [1998]). As the Court of Appeals has acknowledged, there may be certain circumstances which “represent a slight modification of language in previous case law concerning the necessity of full performance by all parties within a year to satisfy the Statute of Frauds” but nevertheless “warrant a slightly different analysis that remains consistent with . . . the overriding purpose of the Statute of Frauds,” namely “the prevention of fraud in the proving of certain legal transactions particularly susceptible to deception, mistake and perjury but not to afford persons a means of evading just obligations” (Cron, 91 NY2d at 370 [citations and internal quotation marks omitted]). Where, as here, “the measure of defendant’s obligation to compensate its employee is fixed within a year, the dangers envisioned by the Statute of Frauds do not come into play” (id.). Indeed, the absence of fraud on the part of plaintiff is indicated by the fact that the firm’s CFO confirmed the existence of the promise to pay plaintiff SRPs, the firm’s controller calculated the SRPs due to plaintiff, and the partnership had a history of paying SRPs to partners who took early retirement without a written agreement. While the dissent is correct in noting that not all Senior Counsel are entitled to SRPs, the alleged oral agreement, as noted supra, was for plaintiff to become Senior Counsel (having been deemed to retire at the specific written request of the executive committee) with a right to SRPs. Although the 1995 letter signed by Rajpal, the firm’s controller, which calculated the SRPs plaintiff was expected to receive, is some evidence of the existence of the oral agreement alleged by plaintiff, it does not constitute a memorandum signed by defendant’s agent such as to satisfy the writing requirement of the statute of frauds, since Rajpal did not have the authority to offer plaintiff SRPs. The other writings cited by plaintiff are also deficient; the Rogers & Wells “Change of Status Form” listing plaintiff as a “Senior Counsel” is not dispositive, since, under the Retirement Plan, not all Senior Counsel are entitled to SRPs, and the Benefit Plans Guide for Partners, which was sent to plaintiff after he withdrew from the firm, states that it “is not complete,” it “does not constitute an official summary of any . . . plans,” and in the event of a conflict between the benefit guide and “the provisions of the legal plan documents,” the latter would prevail. We emphasize that our rejection of defendant’s “agreement to agree” argument and statute of frauds defense is not conclusive of the ultimate merits; issues of fact exist as to the terms of the parties’ agreement and the amount, if any, of the SRPs to which plaintiff is entitled. However, plaintiff can only recover the SRPs that have already fallen due; he is not entitled to the present value of future installments of SRPs (see e.g. Acacia Natl. Life Ins. Co. v Kay Jewelers, 203 AD2d 40, 43-44 [1994]; Romar v Alli, 120 AD2d 420, 421 [1986]). Plaintiff’s unjust enrichment claim was properly dismissed because no benefit “was unjustly conferred upon defendant! ] at plaintiff’s expense” (J.E. Capital v Karp Family Assoc., 285 AD2d 361, 362 [2001]). There is no common-law right to a pension (see Schlansky v United Merchants & Mfrs., Inc., 443 F Supp 1054, 1059 [1977]). Plaintiff was compensated for his work for the firm by receiving profit distributions while he was a partner. In addition, for the first four years after he left the firm, he received 37.5% of the distributions he would have received if he had remained a partner. Defendant’s refusal to pay SRPs is not so shocking that equity and good conscience require defendant to pay them, especially in light of evidence that plaintiff was asked to leave the firm because of a serious billing problem. Plaintiff’s claim for breach of fiduciary duty was properly dismissed because he failed to allege an independent tort (see William Kaufman Org. v Graham & James, 269 AD2d 171, 173 [2000]; cf. Mandelblatt v Devon Stores, 132 AD2d 162, 167-168 [1987]). Although plaintiff argues that defendant acted in bad faith, a failure to pay money in accordance with an alleged promise is a breach of contract, not a tort. Concur—Buckley, PJ., Mazzarelli and Andrias, JJ. Sullivan, J., Plaintiff has not raised the doctrine of part performance, an exception to the statute of frauds, which in any event would be inapplicable, since the acts of part performance must have been those of the party insisting on the contract and unequivocally referable to the agreement, but plaintiffs early retirement and acceptance of certain retirement payments and benefits did not automatically entitle him to SRPs (see Messner Vetere Berger McNamee Schmetterer Euro RSCG v Aegis Group, 93 NY2d 229 [1999]).
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Louise Gruner Gans, J.), entered August 12, 2002, which, after a nonjury trial, awarded plaintiff purchasers the return of their down payment in the sum of $67,500, together with interest at the statutory rate from January 28, 1986, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The mortgage contingency clause provided that plaintiffs could cancel within five days if a commitment was not obtained by the date specified therein or “on Notice to Seller” if the other stated conditions respecting the mortgage to be obtained by the buyers were not met. By its plain language, the latter portion of the contingency clause did not contain a specific deadline for notice. Where no specific deadline is provided in a mortgage contingency clause, a reasonable time for cancellation thereunder is implied (see Tendler v Lazar, 141 AD2d 717 [1988]). Plaintiffs’ notice of termination, based on the admittedly nonconforming mortgage commitment obtained, served before any closing was set, was reasonable. Defendants’ argument that plaintiffs could not rely upon the mortgage contingency clause because they did not apply for their mortgage in writing, but did so orally, is without merit. The contract of sale did not require a written mortgage application. In view of defendants’ breach in failing to return the down payment, which was released by defendants’ attorney to them, imposition of interest at the statutory rate was proper under CPLR 5001 (a). We have considered defendants’ other arguments and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, EJ., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Norma Ruiz, J.), entered on or about September 20, 2002, which granted defendant Juan Medina’s motion for summary judgment and dismissed the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. In this personal injury action arising out of a motor vehicle collision in the course of plaintiffs employment, summary judgment was properly granted to defendant Medina (CPLR 3212; Insurance Law § 5104 [a]; § 5102 [d]; see Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955, 957 [1992]). The medical reports submitted by plaintiff in opposition to his motion were neither sworn nor affirmed, and therefore inadmissible (see Merrill/New York Co. v Celerity Sys., 300 AD2d 206, 207 [2002]; Charlton v Almaraz, 278 AD2d 145 [2000]). While plaintiff provided additional medical documentation only after the reply papers had been submitted, and without any opportunity for a response, plaintiff’s belated submissions are conclusory, both as to the injuries sustained and their cause (see Berbery v Yeung, 290 AD2d 293, 294 [2002]; Walker v Betts Cab Corp., 272 AD2d 179 [2000]), and lack probative value, being neither affirmed (CPLR 2106) nor sworn (see Merrill/New York Co. at 206; Walker at 179). Thus, the record lacks objective substantiation of plaintiff’s subjective complaints and is insufficient to establish a causal relationship between the alleged injuries and the automobile accident involving the parties’ vehicles (see Chrisomalides v Ekow, 291 AD2d 202 [2002]). Concur—Buckley, P.J., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Charles Ramos, J.), entered May 30, 2003, which dismissed the complaint, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Appeal from order, same court and Justice, entered March 25, 2003, which granted defendant’s pre-answer motion to dismiss the complaint, unanimously dismissed, without costs, as subsumed in the appeal from the judgment. Plaintiff alleges that it was prevented from participating in the acquisition of defendant Nexcycle. Specifically, it contends that its commitment letter was improperly rejected, in breach of the underlying leveraged buyout proposal (the agreement). The complaint and plaintiffs own evidentiary submissions demonstrate that its commitment letters failed to conform to the unambiguous terms of the agreement in material respects, and plaintiff cannot invoke the purported custom and practice of the industry to excuse the deviation (see Chimart Assoc. v Paul, 66 NY2d 570, 572-573 [1986]; Lester Morse Co. v 3 Hanover Sq. Owners Corp., 156 AD2d 229, 230 [1989]; Salzman v Bowyer Prods., 42 AD 2d 531 [1973]). Defendants’ submissions were properly considered on the motion since they clearly establish that defendants did not agree to the modifications alleged by plaintiff (see Guggenheimer v Ginzburg, 43 NY2d 268, 275 [1977]; Acquista v New York Life Ins. Co., 285 AD2d 73, 76 [2001]). Thus, defendants were relieved of their obligation to perform (see e.g. Special Situations Fund III v Versus Tech., 227 AD2d 321 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 815 [1996]), and the cause of action for breach of contract was properly dismissed. Defendants were entitled to enforce the terms of the agreement; the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing may not be construed to nullify existing contractual provisions or contrive novel contract rights (see Murphy v American Home Prods. Corp., 58 NY2d 293, 304 [1983]; Fesseha v TD Waterhouse Inv. Servs., 305 AD2d 268 [2003]). Nor is a claim predicated on unjust enrichment cognizable where the parties’ rights and obligations are governed by a valid and enforceable contract (see Clark-Fitzpatrick, Inc. v Long Is. R.R. Co., 70 NY2d 382, 388 [1987]; DePinto v Ashley Scott, Inc., 222 AD2d 288, 289 [1995]). Likewise, “a contract action may not be converted into one for fraud by the mere additional allegation that the contracting party did not intend to meet its contractual obligation” (Bronx Store Equip. Co. v Westbury Brooklyn Assoc., 280 AD2d 352, 352 [2001] ; see McMahan & Co. v Bass, 250 AD2d 460, 463 [1998], lv denied and dismissed 92 NY2d 1013 [1998]; Gordon v Dino De Laurentiis Corp., 141 AD2d 435, 436 [1988]). Finally, plaintiff has pleaded “nothing that demonstrates an intent to enter into anything other than a simple contractual relationship” (Zeising v Kelly, 152 F Supp 2d 335, 348 [SD NY 2001]) that never materialized, obviating any claim for breach of fiduciary duty (cf. Precision Testing Labs., Ltd. v Kenyon Corp. of Am., 644 F Supp 1327, 1342-1343 [SD NY 1986] [oral joint venture]). Concur—Buckley, EJ., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Ira Gammerman, J.), entered February 28, 2003, which, in this action seeking, inter alia, declaratory relief, granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint, unanimously modified, on the law, to the extent of declaring that the challenged merger is valid, that defendants are shareholders in the merged entity, and that such entity possesses the intellectual property rights previously transferred to Smart Tone, Inc. pursuant to a licensing agreement, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. The motion court correctly determined that plaintiff was estopped from denying the validity of agreements he had signed in both his representative and individual capacities, that similar equities barred his challenge to the merger agreement (see generally CarrAmerica Realty Corp. v Kaidanow, 321 F3d 165, 170 [2003]), and that his belated claim of economic duress in agreeing to the merger was insufficient (see Sosnoff v Carter, 165 AD2d 486, 491 [1991]; Khalid v Scagnelli, 290 AD2d 352, 354 [2002] ). We modify solely to declare in defendants’ favor (see Lanza v Wagner, 11 NY2d 317, 334 [1962], cert denied 371 US 901 [1962]). We have considered plaintiff’s other contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, EJ., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Dianne Renwick, J.), entered May 1, 2003, which denied defendants-appellants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint as against them on the ground that plaintiff did not suffer a serious injury as defined by Insurance Law § 5102 (d), unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiffs doctor’s affirmation, correlating significant quantified range of motion limitations in plaintiffs lower back, among other conditions, to herniated and bulging discs revealed in an MRI taken shortly after the accident in October 2000, and opining that the disability to plaintiffs back is permanent, is sufficient to raise an issue of fact as to whether plaintiff sustained a serious injury (see Cespedes v McNamee, 308 AD2d 409 [2003]). Contrary to defendants’ contention, there is no unexplained gap of 2Vs years in treatment. The record shows that plaintiff was treated at an affiliated group of medical professionals where she saw several doctors and received physical therapy, pain management, acupuncture and physiatric evaluations through late August 2001. At the time of her deposition in January 2002, plaintiff continued to do her physical therapy at home and to see her doctors every four months. Any unexplained gap between the end of plaintiffs physical therapy and the February 2003 examination conducted by the doctor whose affidavit was submitted by plaintiff in opposition to the motion goes to the weight to be given to his medical opinion and is properly for consideration by a jury (see Ramos v Dekhtyar, 301 AD2d 428 [2003]). It does not avail defendants that the MRI report relied on by plaintiffs doctor, which, we note, was also relied on by defendants’ doctors, was unsworn (see Toledo v A.P.O.W. Auto Repair/Towing, 307 AD2d 233 [2003]). Concur—Buckley, P.J., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Edward Lehner, J.), entered June 25, 2003, which denied defendant-appellant elevator company’s motion for partial summary judgment dismissing plaintiff condominium’s claims for breach of the parties’ 1989 maintenance contract and for personal injuries sustained by building residents, guests and employees, unanimously modified, on the law, to dismiss the claims for personal injuries, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Although the complaint does not assert a separate claim against appellant for personal injuries sustained by building residents, guests and employees, and although plaintiff represents that it makes no such claims, its discovery responses do cite such injuries as an element of its damages. As plaintiff does not have standing to raise such claims (Real Property Law § 339-dd; see Koatz v 1776 Second Ave. Assoc., 244 AD2d 201 [1997]), we modify to clarify that any such claims are dismissed. While the complaint does not specifically recite the 1989 maintenance contract, it does allege that appellant “fail[ed] to make repairs and provide proper servicing of its equipment.” Furthermore, plaintiffs first set of interrogatories alleges that appellant failed not only to resolve certain specified construction or design-related defects but also “to make appropriate repairs from October 5, 1988 and continuing.” Together, these allegations gave appellant fair and timely notice that plaintiff was putting in issue not only the installation and one-year maintenance components of the 1985 installation contract between appellant and the building’s general contractor, but also the 1989 maintenance contract between appellant and plaintiff. Dismissal of plaintiffs claims based on the 1989 contract is not required simply because plaintiffs property manager testified that he does not “understand” plaintiffs claims to be based thereon. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Richard Carruthers, J.), rendered October 1, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of kidnapping in the second degree, burglary in the first degree and robbery in the second degree, and sentencing him to an aggregate term of 25 years, unanimously affirmed. The court properly denied defendant’s request for an intoxication charge. The evidence, viewed most favorably to defendant, was insufficient for a reasonable person to entertain a doubt as to the element of intent on the basis of intoxication (see People v Gaines, 83 NY2d 925, 927 [1994]; People v Rodriguez, 76 NY2d 918, 920 [1990]; People v Silverio, 252 AD2d 358 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 930 [1998]). We note that defendant’s overall course of conduct showed that he was behaving purposefully. The court properly exercised its discretion when, after a prospective juror appeared upset about his excusal, and another panelist, who was ultimately excused as well, expressed concern about the incident, the court declined to ask the entire panel about any possible effect that the incident may have had (see People v Buford, 69 NY2d 290, 299 [1987]). There is no evidence that any other panelists noticed the original incident, or that there was any possibility of prejudice to defendant. We have considered and rejected defendant’s remaining claims, including those contained in his pro se supplemental brief. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Appeal from judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Ira Beal, J.), entered October 7, 2002, dismissing plaintiff’s personal injury action with prejudice due to plaintiffs inability to go forward with the trial, unanimously dismissed, without costs. The appeal as of right, taken from a sua sponte order not made upon notice, must be dismissed (CPLR 5701 [a] [2]; Sholes v Meagher, 100 NY2d 333 [2003]). This is true, notwithstanding that the judgment eventually was entered “on motion” of counsel for defendants New York Mercantile Exchange and Turner Construction Co. and that the court entertained brief oral argument (see id. at 335). In any event, only a sparse record was created concerning the history of case conferencing and prior advisements by plaintiff’s counsel as to the purported need for imminent surgery, so that the propriety of dismissing the case with prejudice based on what the court described as plaintiffs “subterfuge” cannot properly be evaluated (see id. at 336). Therefore, we decline to grant leave to appeal. It is true that the Sholes Court expressly noted that “we address only the right of appeal from an order (CPLR 5701 [a] [2]), not from a judgment (CPLR 5701 [a] [1])” (at 335 n 1). However, the same analysis should apply to the “judgment” appealed in the instant case, since entry of that judgment was merely a ministerial act based on the “so ordered” transcript of the court proceeding at which the sua sponte ruling was issued. We note, however, that defendant-respondent A.J. Contracting Co. represents in its brief that plaintiff did in fact make a motion on notice to vacate the judgment dismissing the case, and has filed a notice of appeal, dated August 18, 2003, from an order of Justice Louise Gruner Gans, dated August 18, 2003, in which plaintiffs motion to vacate was denied. Thus, although the instant appeal should be dismissed under Sholes, plaintiff has preserved his right to appeal the substantive ruling via the appropriate procedural mechanism (id. at 335). Concur— Buckley, EJ., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Family Court, New York County (Jody Adams, J.), entered on or about April 20, 2001, which denied respondent father’s objections to a modified order of support dated January 16, 2001, which, upon remand for recalculation, increased his child support obligation for the parties’ 16-year-old daughter from $410.50 per month to $299.94 bi-weekly, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Contrary to respondent’s argument, the upward modification of his child support obligation sought by petitioner was not precluded by the parties’ several-year-old agreement establishing his child support obligation at a level lower than it would be if set pursuant to the Child Support Standards Act (CSSA) guidelines (see Matter of Tompkins County Support Collection Unit v Chamberlin, 99 NY2d 328, 337 [2003]). Nor did any failure by petitioner to specify unanticipated circumstances warranting upward modification preclude the relief, given the presumptively deficient prevailing level of child support (see Matter of Brescia v Fitts, 56 NY2d 132 [1982]). We have considered respondent’s remaining arguments and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, EJ., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Biidd Goodman, J.), rendered November 29, 2001, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, and sentencing him to concurrent terms of 2Vs to 7 years and 1 year, respectively, unanimously affirmed. The court properly denied defendant’s motion to suppress physical evidence. The record supports the court’s finding that the police had reasonable suspicion to justify stopping and frisking defendant. An informant, who reasonably appeared to be a concerned citizen, gave the police a detailed description of a man allegedly in possession of a gun in a nearby restaurant. All of the circumstances, taken together, warranted the inference that the informant had personally observed the gun, very shortly before. The police found defendant, who met the precise description provided by the informant, in the exact location indicated. Although the police did not ask the informant for his name and he remains unidentified, we find that Florida v J.L. (529 US 266 [2000]) is distinguishable, because the informant’s reliability was enhanced by all of the circumstances of the face-to-face encounter. Concur — Buckley, EJ., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Robert Lippmann, J.), entered March 28, 2002, which denied defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. While defendant maintains that it had no notice of the hazard to which plaintiff attributes his harm, i.e., an accumulation of water on the floor of one of its subway stations, and that summary judgment should therefore have been granted dismissing the complaint, triable issues as to notice are raised by plaintiffs evidence indicating that the complained-of hazard had been observed by another commuter some eight hours prior to plaintiffs accident (cf. Gordon v American Museum of Natural History, 67 NY2d 836 [1986]). Concur — Buckley, EJ., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Arlene Goldberg, J., at plea; Eduardo Padro, J., at sentence), rendered on or about August 7, 2002, unanimously affirmed. Application by appellant’s counsel to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Saunders, 52 AD2d 833 [1976]). We have reviewed this record and agree with appellant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous points which could be raised on this appeal. Pursuant to Criminal Procedure Law § 460.20, defendant has the right to apply for leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals by making application to the Chief Judge of that Court and by submitting such application to the Clerk of that Court or to a Justice of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of this Department on reasonable notice to the respondent within 30 days after service of a copy of this order, with notice of entry. Denial of the application for permission to appeal by the judge or justice first applied to is final and no new application may thereafter be made to any other judge or justice. Concur— Buckley, EJ., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Howard Silver, J.), entered February 14, 2003, which, in this personal injury action arising out of a fall in defendants’ premises, vacated their default in answering, directed plaintiff to accept the answer, and struck her note of issue, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Appeal from decision, same court and Justice, dated October 7, 2002, unanimously dismissed, without costs, as taken from a nonappealable paper. No appeal lies from a decision (Brady v Brady, 271 AD2d 563, 564 [2000]). Plaintiffs nearly nine-month delay in submitting an order granting her judgment on default constitutes abandonment (Uniform Rules for Trial Cts [22 NYCRR] § 202.48 [a], [b]; see Delta Funding Corp. v Khader, 303 AD2d 710 [2003]; cf. Funk v Barry, 89 NY2d 364 [1996]), and the failure to serve defendants with the order with notice of entry obviates a finding of good cause for the delay {Brady at 564). In support of their application to serve and file a late answer, defendants demonstrated a meritorious defense by tendering affidavits indicating that, in view of the time plaintiff fell (12:30 a.m.), they did not have a reasonable opportunity to discover the presence of a wet, slippery substance on the stairway and take appropriate measures to remedy the condition (Piacquadio v Recine Realty Corp., 84 NY2d 967, 969 [1994]; Gordon v American Museum of Natural History, 67 NY2d 836, 837-838 [1986]). While defendants’ excuse for their delay in answering is not compelling, the record reflects a substitution of counsel and confusion as to whether defendants’ untimely, unverified answer had been accepted. Law office failure is not a bar to relieving a party from the consequences of a default (CPLR 2005; see Mediavilla v Gurman, 272 AD2d 146, 148 [2000]; Pastore v Golub Corp., 184 AD2d 827, 828 [1992]), and defendants have therefore demonstrated their entitlement to relief (see Eugene Di Lorenzo, Inc. v Dutton Lbr. Co., 67 NY2d 138, 141 [1986]; Aronson v Hyatt Intl. Corp., 202 AD2d 153 [1994]). Since plaintiff has not demonstrated any prejudice as a result of the delay, the grant of leave to file a late answer was a provident exercise of discretion (see Keles v Kennedy, 238 AD2d 185 [1997]; Mendoza v Bi-County Paving, 227 AD2d 302 [1996]). Concur— Buckley, EJ., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Harold Tompkins, J.), entered January 30, 2003, in favor of plaintiff and against defendants in the amount of $66,843.35, plus interest, costs and disbursements, unanimously affirmed, with costs. No basis exists to disturb the trial court’s finding discrediting the individual defendant’s testimony that he orally objected to plaintiffs April 5, 1995 bill and subsequent written communications demanding its payment (see Thoreson v Penthouse Intl., 80 NY2d 490, 495 [1992]). It does not avail defendant that he objected to earlier bills that plaintiff deemed satisfied after reduced payments, and no portions of which were carried over into the April 5, 1995 bill. Accordingly, plaintiff was properly granted judgment on his cause of action for an account stated based on the April 5, 1995 bill (see Rosenman Colin Freund Lewis & Cohen v Edelman, 160 AD2d 626 [1990]). Defendant trust was properly held jointly and severally liable with the individual defendant since a disposition in trust for the use of the creator is void as against the existing or subsequent creditors of the creator (EPTL 7-3.1 [a]). We have considered and rejected defendants’ other arguments. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Rosenberger, Ellerin, Williams and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Herman Cahn, J.), entered on or about July 10, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint, unanimously modified, on the law, the motion denied as to the fraudulent inducement and promissory estoppel causes of action to the extent indicated herein, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Skillgames hired defendant as its Director of Marketing in July 2001. An employment agreement, drafted by Skillgames and signed by defendant on July 9, 2001, specifically provides that defendant was an at-will employee and, “[a]s such, either you or Skillgames may terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or without notice, for any reason.” In addition to his salary, defendant’s compensation included 110,000 Skillgames stock options, which were to vest over a period of four years. At the time of the negotiations leading to his employment by Skillgames, defendant was employed by Priceline.com, Inc. (Priceline). According to the complaint, defendant represented to Skillgames that he was “committed to continued employment with Skillgames” and that he would terminate his employment with Priceline immediately upon his commencing employment with Skillgames, which would result in his forfeiture of unvested Priceline stock options worth approximately $125,000. Skillgames alleges that, in reliance on defendant’s representations, it agreed to provide defendant with a $125,000 loan, secured solely by the 110,000 Skillgames stock options it was providing defendant as part of his compensation package. The terms of the loan were set forth in a “Nonrecourse Promissory Note,” which expressly exonerates defendant from liability for the amount of the loan, stating that defendant “has no personal liability and [Skillgames] has no recourse against any asset of [defendant] for repayment of amounts due hereunder other than the Pledged Assets.” Defendant began working for Skillgames in late July 2001. The complaint further alleges that, contrary to his representations, defendant did not immediately terminate his employment with Priceline, but, rather, continued it until October 2001, more than two months after he began working for Skillgames. As a result, defendant did not lose his Priceline stock options. In addition, Skillgames claims that, rather than being committed to continued employment with Skillgames, defendant quit in November 2001, less than four months after he began. Skillgames demanded that defendant repay the nonrecourse loan, defendant refused to do so, and this lawsuit ensued. The essence of Skillgames’s complaint is that it was induced to grant defendant the $125,000 nonrecourse loan based upon defendant’s allegedly false representations and promises. The complaint asserts five causes of action, only four of which— fraudulent inducement, promissory estoppel, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and quantum meruit—are before us on appeal. (The IAS court found that Skillgames’s remaining claim, which involved a separate loan for $4,500, did state a cause of action and remanded it to the Civil Court. That aspect of the court’s decision was not appealed.) Skillgames seeks repayment of the $125,000 loan plus interest, attorneys’ fees and punitive damages. Defendant moved, pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7), to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a cause of action. In support, defendant states in an affidavit that he terminated his full-time employment with Priceline when he began working for Skill-games but that he continued to work part-time for Priceline in order to complete a project he had begun prior to accepting Skillgames’s employment offer. He avers that his work for Priceline was performed on his own time and from his home and did not interfere or conflict with his Skillgames employment. Defendant acknowledges that his continued work for Priceline permitted some of his Priceline stock options to vest over the two months of his part-time employment. However, he contends that he forfeited $130,000 worth of unvested Priceline stock options when he terminated his part-time work on October 12, 2001. Defendant submitted an additional affidavit from Priceline’s General Counsel confirming the forfeiture of defendant’s unvested Priceline stock options. Further, defendant denies that he terminated his employment with Skillgames. According to defendant’s affidavit, within weeks after he began working for Skillgames, Walt Disney Company, a major investor in Skillgames’s initial business project, withdrew its support, and, as a result, approximately 20% of Skillgames’s employees (not including defendant) were laid off. Then, on November 8, 2001, Jay Walker, Skillgames’s controlling shareholder, announced that Skillgames’s business would not be launched and that the company would be dissolved. The breakup of Skillgames left defendant with 110,000 worthless Skillgames stock options and without a job. Defendant thereafter was offered and accepted employment with Walker Digital, another company owned by Walker, but soon after concluded that Walker Digital’s chances of success were minimal. He contacted Priceline and asked if he could return and Priceline accepted him back. The IAS court dismissed Skillgames’s claims for fraudulent inducement, promissory estoppel, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and quantum meruit. In considering a motion to dismiss, a court must accept as true the facts alleged in the complaint as well as all reasonable inferences that may be gleaned from those facts (McGill v Parker, 179 AD2d 98, 105 [1992]; see also Cron v Hargro Fabrics, 91 NY2d 362, 366 [1998]; Morone v Morone, 50 NY2d 481, 484 [1980]). The court is not authorized to assess the merits of the complaint or any of its factual allegations, but only to determine if, assuming the truth of the facts alleged, the complaint states the elements of a legally cognizable cause of action (see e.g. Guggenheimer v Ginzburg, 43 NY2d 268, 275 [1977]). However, factual allegations that do not state a viable cause of action, that consist of bare legal conclusions, or that are inherently incredible or clearly contradicted by documentary evidence are not entitled to such consideration (Caniglia v Chicago Tribune-New York News Syndicate, 204 AD2d 233 [1994]). Skillgames’s fraudulent inducement claim requires it to allege and prove that it reasonably relied on a material misrepresentation by defendant and that it suffered an injury as a result of that reliance (National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa. v Worley, 257 AD2d 228, 233 [1999]). Similarly, to state a cause of action for promissory estoppel, Skillgames must allege that it reasonably relied to its detriment on a promise by defendant (Rogers v Town of Islip, 230 AD2d 727 [1996]). Skillgames argues that the IAS court improperly based its dismissal of the fraudulent inducement and promissory estoppel claims on the parties’ employment agreement even though its claims are specifically addressed to the promissory note. However, regardless of the terms of the employment agreement, defendant’s status as an at-will employee—which was simply confirmed by the employment agreement—renders unreasonable Skillgames’s claimed reliance on defendant’s alleged representation (or promise) that he was “committed to continued employment” with Skillgames. As an at-will employee, defendant was free to terminate his employment at any time, just as Skillgames was free to fire defendant at any time. That is the essence of the doctrine of employment-at-will (see Murphy v American Home Prods. Corp., 58 NY2d 293 [1983]). Thus, the court properly dismissed Skillgames’s fraudulent inducement and promissory estoppel claims to the extent they were premised on defendant’s alleged representation that he was “committed to continued employment.” However, the same cannot be said about defendant’s alleged representation that he would immediately terminate his Priceline employment and thereby incur an immediate loss of $125,000 worth of unvested Priceline stock options. There is nothing in this representation that would render Skillgames’s alleged reliance unreasonable as a matter of law. Whether defendant actually made those representations, whether they were material to the parties’ relationship, whether Skillgames relied on those representations, and whether any such reliance was reasonable under the circumstances presented are all factual matters that cannot be determined on the present motion. Contrary to defendant’s contention, the affidavits submitted in support of defendant’s CPLR 3211 (a) (7) motion do not “conclusively establish that [plaintiff] has no cause of action” (Rovello v Orofino Realty Co., 40 NY2d 633, 636 [1976]; see also Health-Loom Corp. v Soho Plaza Corp., 209 AD2d 197 [1994]); they merely dispute some of the factual allegations of the complaint. Thus, Skillgames’s causes of action for fraudulent inducement and promissory estoppel are reinstated to the extent they are premised on defendant’s alleged representations that he would immediately terminate his Priceline employment and, as a result, immediately lose $125,000 worth of Priceline stock options. The IAS court correctly dismissed Skillgames’s claim for quantum meruit. To state a claim in quantum meruit, a plaintiff must allege its good faith performance of services, the defendant’s acceptance of those services, an expectation of compensation for the services, and the reasonable value of those services (Freedman v Pearlman, 271 AD2d 301, 304 [2000]). As an initial matter, Skillgames does not allege that it performed any services for defendant, only that it provided him with money in the form of a loan. The court is unaware of any case applying quantum meruit to the provision of money rather than services. In addition, a claim for quantum meruit generally will not lie where a contract between the parties governs the dispute (Clark-Fitzpatrick, Inc. v Long Is. R.R. Co., 70 NY2d 382 [1987]; see also Rowe v Great Atl. & Pac. Tea Co., 46 NY2d 62, 69 [1978]; Zolotar v New York Life Ins. Co., 172 AD2d 27, 31 [1991]; cf. Joseph Sternberg, Inc. v Walber 36th St. Assoc., 187 AD2d 225, 227-229 [1993]). The promissory note, which Skillgames claims governs this dispute, thus defeats Skillgames’s quantum meruit claim. Skillgames cannot seek to circumvent the terms of its agreement by characterizing its claim as one in quantum meruit. In addition, to the extent that the defendant’s “continued employment” by Skillgames constitutes the “compensation” that Skillgames allegedly expected, that expectation is not only unreasonable, it is belied by both defendant’s status as an at-will employee and by the employment agreement’s specific declaration of that fact. The IAS court’s dismissal of Skillgames’s related claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing was also correct. Implicit in every contract is a promise of good faith and fair dealing (Rowe v Great Atl. & Pac. Tea Co., 46 NY2d 62 [1978]), which is breached when a party “acts in a manner that, although not expressly forbidden by any contractual provision, would deprive the other party of the right to receive the benefits under their agreement” (Jaffe v Paramount Communications, 222 AD2d 17, 22-23 [1996]). Skillgames alleges that the benefit of its bargain was defendant’s continued employment with Skillgames. However, while the benefit to Skillgames of the promissory note may have been to induce defendant to accept employment, it could not be that defendant would remain as a Skillgames employee forever in view of defendant’s status as an at-will employee, a status Skillgames specifically wrote into the employment agreement. A claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing cannot substitute for an unsustainable breach of contract claim (Triton Partners v Prudential Sec., 301 AD2d 411 [2003]). Finally, we do not accept Skillgames’s contention that defendant’s labeling his motion as one to dismiss the complaint “in its entirety” precluded the court from dismissing four of the complaint’s five claims when it found the fifth did state a cause of action. While such a rule has been applied in some circumstances (see e.g. McInerney v Village of Bellport, 87 AD2d 861 [1982]), when, as was the case here, the motion particularizes why each claim should be dismissed, the court should treat the motion as applying to each cause of action alleged in the complaint (see Halpern v Halpern, 109 AD2d 818 [1985]), regardless of how the motion is denominated. Concur—Andrias, J.E, Saxe, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Edward Lehner, J.), entered May 1, 2002, which granted petitioner’s application to stay arbitration of respondents’ claim for counsel fees and court costs incurred in a federal court proceeding brought to confirm a prior arbitration award, unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, the application denied, and the petition dismissed. The collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between petitioner employer (Fairfield) and respondent labor union local provides that a party is entitled “to receive from the other party all expenses for counsel fees and court costs” incurred in a successful suit to compel compliance with an arbitration award rendered pursuant to the agreement. After the union prevailed in a federal court proceeding it brought to confirm an arbitration award against Fairfield (see Fishman v Fairfield Towers, 2001 WL 1338897, 2001 US Dist LEXIS 17759 [SD NY, Oct 31, 2001]), the union demanded arbitration pursuant to the CBA of its claim against Fairfield for the counsel fees and court costs it had incurred in the confirmation proceeding. In response, Fairfield petitioned Supreme Court to stay the arbitration pursuant to CPLR 7503. The IAS court stayed the arbitration based on its view that the CBA “does not empower the arbitrator to make such awards.” This was error. The CBA provides that “all differences arising between the parties . . . as to interpretation, application or performance of any part of this agreement” shall be resolved through arbitration, and empowers the arbitrator to “award appropriate remedies.” As the union’s claim for its counsel fees and court costs in the confirmation proceeding involves the “interpretation, application or performance of [a] part of [the CBA],” the instant dispute is arbitrable under the CBA. To the extent any ambiguity might be deemed to exist as to whether the arbitration clause covers this claim, all such ambiguities are to be resolved in favor of arbitrability (see e.g. International Union of El. Constructors, AFL-CIO v National El. Indus., Inc., 772 F2d 10, 13 [2d Cir 1985]; Matter of PricewaterhouseCoopers L.L.P. v Rutlen, 284 AD2d 200 [2001]). In an August 2002 order denying the union’s motion for reargument of the stay application, the IAS court opined that arbitration of the union’s claim for counsel fees and court costs was precluded by the fact that, although the union’s petition to confirm the arbitration award had sought the “costs and disbursements of this proceeding,” the federal court’s decision did not grant such relief. This reasoning, which Fairfield advances as an alternative ground for affirmance of the order appealed from, is also incorrect. Since the union’s claim for the counsel fees and court costs it incurred in the confirmation proceeding is within the scope of the CBA’s broad arbitration provision, the preclusive effect, if any, of the federal court’s decision in the confirmation proceeding is a matter to be determined by the arbitrator (see Matter of Port Auth. v Port Auth. Police Sergeants Benevolent Assn., 225 AD2d 503 [1996], citing Board of Educ. v Patchogue-Medford Congress of Teachers, 48 NY2d 812 [1979]). Finally, we find unavailing Fairfield’s argument that the arbitration should be stayed on the ground that Fairfield had validly terminated the CBA as of a date prior to the commencement of the confirmation proceeding and the union’s subsequent demand for arbitration of its claim for counsel fees and court costs incurred in that proceeding. As the CBA contains a broad arbitration clause that does not expressly exclude disputes over termination, and the union appears to have a good faith argument that Fairfield’s purported termination of the CBA was ineffective under the applicable contractual terms, “the issue of whether the acts or conduct of the parties may have terminated . . . the [CBA] is properly for the arbitrator to decide” (31 W. 47th St. Co. v Bevona, 215 AD2d 152, 154 [1995]; see also Abram Landau Real Estate v Bevona, 123 F3d 69 [2d Cir 1997]). Even if the validity of Fairfield’s termination of the CBA were undisputed, we would not reach a different result. Given that the confirmation proceeding related to an award enforcing rights that had accrued under the CBA while it was in effect, this is an instance in which a “structural provision[ ] relating to remedies and dispute resolution [here, the CBA’s arbitration provision] . . . [would] survive [the expiration of the remainder of the CBA] in order to enforce duties arising under the contract” (Litton Fin. Print. Div. v National Labor Relations Bd., 501 US 190, 208 [1991]). Concur—Tom, J.P., Sullivan, Rosenberger, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Jerry Crispino, J.), entered February 21, 2003, which denied the motion of defendant-appellant New York City School Construction Authority to dismiss the complaint and granted plaintiffs cross motion for leave to file a late notice of claim nunc pro tunc, unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, defendant’s motion granted, and plaintiff’s cross motion denied. The Clerk is directed to enter judgment in favor of defendant-appellant dismissing the complaint as against it. In this personal injury action against New York City, the New York City Board of Education, and the New York City School Construction Authority (SCA), SCA appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Bronx County, denying its motion to dismiss the complaint and granting plaintiffs cross motion for leave to file a late notice of claim nunc pro tunc. SCA is a public benefit corporation created under the Public Authorities Law. Section 1744 (1) of the Public Authorities Law establishes a one-year statute of limitations for tort actions against SCA, and provides that no action against the Authority may be maintained unless a notice of claim was “made and served upon the authority, within the time limit prescribed by and in compliance with section fifty-e of the general municipal law.” General Municipal Law § 50-e (1) requires that a notice of claim in an action against a public corporation be served within 90 days after the claim arises. While General Municipal Law § 50-e (5) vests courts with discretion to permit late filing of a notice of claim, “[t]he extension shall not exceed the time limited for the commencement of an action . . . against the public corporation.” Plaintiff’s cause of action accrued on October 9, 2001. Although plaintiff served New York City and the New York City Board of Education with a notice of claim within the requisite 90 days, he did not serve a notice of claim on SCA until January 28, 2002, 21 days past the 90-day limit, and he did so without seeking court approval for the late service. The statute of limitations for plaintiff’s claim expired on October 8, 2002. Not until January 6, 2003—nearly 15 months after his cause of action accrued and three months after the statute of limitations expired—did plaintiff file an application to have his previously served notice of claim deemed timely served nunc pro tunc. Supreme Court granted plaintiffs application and denied SCA’s motion to dismiss the complaint. In Pierson v City of New York (56 NY2d 950, 954 [1982]), the Court of Appeals held that, although General Municipal Law § 50-e (5) permits a court to grant an application to extend the time in which to serve a notice of claim, it may not entertain such a request filed after the applicable statute of limitations had expired. Plaintiff contends that his application to have his previously served notice of claim deemed timely nunc pro tunc is qualitatively different from a request to serve a late notice of claim, as was in issue in Pierson, because, in the former case, a notice of claim was served, even if beyond the 90-day limit, while the latter presupposes that a notice was never served. Plaintiffs contention is unavailing. In Armstrong v New York Convention Ctr. Operating Corp. (203 AD2d 170 [1994]), a case virtually indistinguishable from the present one, this Court upheld the denial of plaintiffs application “for leave to serve a late notice of claim nunc pro tunc,” made after the statute of limitations had expired. We specifically held that “[t]he court lacked the discretion to excuse plaintiffs’ late service of their notice of claim since their motion for such relief was not made until after the . . . Statute of Limitations had run, and it makes no difference that plaintiffs, without court leave, had served the notice of claim within the limitations period” (id. at 170-171; see also Davis v City of New York, 250 AD2d 368 [1998]). The cases cited by plaintiff are inapposite, as they do not deal with applications made after the statute of limitations had expired (see e.g. Gherardi v City of New York, 294 AD2d 101 [2002]; Johnson v New York City Tr. Auth., 278 AD2d 83 [2000]; Horowitz v New York City School Constr. Auth., 168 Misc 2d 598 [1996]). The fact that SCA engaged in pretrial discovery does not constitute a waiver of the requirements regarding the time and manner , of service of the notice of claim, nor does it preclude SCA from raising the untimeliness of the notice of claim after the statute of limitations had expired (Lavalliere v Department of Correction, 304 AD2d 370 [2003]). Moreover, in this case, plaintiff’s assertion that SCA should be estopped from claiming the defense of an untimely notice of claim because it allegedly “shielded itself from the public making identification impossible” (see Horowitz v New York City School Constr. Auth., 168 Misc 2d 598 [1996]) is unavailing, since plaintiff concededly was notified by New York City in January 2002 that SCA was a potential party responsible for plaintiffs loss. Because the court lacked discretion to grant plaintiffs application to deem the service of his notice of claim to be timely, the order of Supreme Court is reversed; SCA’s motion to dismiss the complaint as to it is granted; and plaintiffs cross motion is denied. Concur—Saxe, J.E, Rosenberger, Williams, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ.
Orders, Family Court, New York County (Helen Sturm, J.), entered on or about October 22, 2002, in this Family Court Act article 10 proceeding, which dismissed, without prejudice, the neglect petitions initiated against respondent mother, Mirayah S., respondent mother’s boyfriend, Ross D., and respondent father, Brian J., Sr., unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, the petitions reinstated, and the matter remanded to the Family Court, New York County, for further proceedings before a different judge in accordance herewith. On May 17, 2001, the Commissioner of the Administration for Children’s Services (the Commissioner or ACS) filed neglect petitions on behalf of three children against Mirayah S., her live-in boyfriend Ross D., and the children’s father, Brian J., Sr., alleging that Ross D. habitually beat the children with a belt, and that Mirayah S. knew of the beatings but did nothing to stop them. The petition also alleged that Jasmine S. frequently missed school, and that she was left to care for her two younger siblings while their mother and her boyfriend were either sleeping or unavailable. In addition, ACS alleged that Brian J., Sr. had a history of domestic violence and cocaine abuse, and that on one occasion he failed to supervise three-year-old Breanna, as a result of which she almost severed her index finger with a meat cleaver. At the Family Court Act § 1028 hearing on May 23, 2001, Jacqueline Anderson, an ACS caseworker, testified that after receiving a report of suspected neglect, she went to Mirayah S.’s home on May 16, 2001. After speaking with Mirayah S., Ross D. and the children, Anderson concluded that the children were at risk, and she had them removed. After the neglect petitions were filed, and while the case was pending, the children were placed in their mother’s custody, under various conditions, including supervised visits for Brian J., Sr. at ACS offices, an ACS referral for babysitting/day care services, and the exclusion of Ross D. from the home. The case was adjourned to September 24, 2001 for a fact-finding hearing. The court ordered that all discovery be provided two weeks prior to that date. When the case was called on September 24, 2001, counsel for ACS requested an adjournment. She asserted that she had not been able to provide discovery because ACS’s offices were closed due to the World Trade Center attacks. In addition, respondents Ross D. and Brian J., Sr. were both incarcerated. The court adjourned the case to January 7, 2002. On that date, the fact-finding hearing commenced and Ms. Anderson reiterated much of her testimony from the section 1028 hearing. She also testified about the history of domestic violence between Brian J., Sr. and Mirayah S. When the Commissioner sought to introduce certain ACS documents, counsel for Ross D. requested an adjournment, asserting that he had only received that material three days earlier. Expressing frustration that discovery had not been exchanged, the court adjourned the case to May 14, 2002. At ACS’s request prior to May 14, an adjournment was granted to July 11, on consent of all the parties. Thereafter, in May 2002, Ross D.’s attorney died. Presuming that Ross D. would not be assigned new counsel at the next court appearance, counsel for ACS did not direct its witnesses to appear on that date. When the case was called on July 11, the court assigned Ross D. new counsel. The court admonished ACS for failing to have its witnesses ready, but adjourned the case to October 22, 2002. On that date, Ross D.’s counsel requested an adjournment because his client was incarcerated. The court determined to bifurcate the hearing and proceed without Ross D. However, the ACS attorney was also ill, and the attorney covering the case for her joined in Ross D.’s counsel’s request. The court denied the application, stating: “Let me be real clear. This case has been adjourned—I’m on the record—numerous times. This was put over from last January, January 7.1 am not granting an adjournment. We are going to go forward today. [Ross D.] has not been produced today. There certainly is good cause for [his] not being here, but there are two other Respondents here. This court has no time now before next January. This was set for fact finding on July 11. We’re going forward today. Step back.” The ACS attorney told the court that she was not sufficiently familiar with the case to proceed, that the only information she had was that the caseworker was in the middle of direct examination. The court ordered a 30-minute recess so that the ACS attorney could prepare. After the recess, the ACS attorney told the court that she had reviewed the file and spoken with the law guardian, but she renewed her request for an adjournment claiming that: “[i]t would be malpractice for me to proceed and completely unethical for me to put witnesses on the stand and try to present evidence on a case I know nothing about.” The court declined to adjourn the case and dismissed all of the petitions for failure to prosecute. This Court granted a stay pending appeal. We now reverse and vacate the order dismissing the neglect petitions. The purpose of Family Court article 10 child protective proceedings is “to establish procedures to help protect children from injury or mistreatment and to help safeguard their physical, mental, and emotional well-being” (Family Ct Act § 1011). In furtherance of that purpose, the statute requires that after ACS files a neglect petition, a court must conduct a fact-finding hearing (Family Ct Act § 1051). The failure to complete such hearing is grounds for reversal (Matter of Emanual David R., 119 AD2d 677 [1986]; Matter of Rhonda T., 99 AD2d 758 [1984]; Matter of Patrick D., 93 AD2d 836 [1983]; Matter of Melissa B., 225 AD2d 452 [1996]). While dismissal prior to completion of the fact-finding hearing may be warranted upon a showing that the agency has failed to diligently prosecute the case (CPLR 3216; Family Ct Act § 165), a prerequisite to dismissal under those statutory sections is a written demand for prosecution, which was not made here (see Melissa B., supra at 453; Matter of Maria L., 152 AD2d 466, 467 [1989]). Moreover, although the attorney for ACS requested a number of adjournments, the totality of this record does not reveal any willful failure to prosecute (see Matter of L. Children, 183 AD2d 624 [1992]). As this Court has emphasized: “[Dismissal is a harsh remedy which ought not to be imposed without the utmost caution. This is particularly true in abuse and neglect proceedings where the consequences of improvident dismissal may be deleterious to the welfare of the children in whose behalf the proceedings are brought” (Matter of Shevon C., 163 AD2d 14, 15 [1990]). The testimony elicited from the ACS caseworker supported the petitioner’s contentions that the children were subject to excessive corporal punishment and were inadequately supervised. The court also received evidence that the father may have had a propensity for violence and that due to his inadequate supervision a meat cleaver was left in the reach of his three-year-old child, who severely lacerated her index finger with it, requiring stitches. The order of protection directing Ross D. to stay away from the residence expired on the date the court dismissed the petition. Although Ross D. was incarcerated on October 22, 2002, the record does not indicate the duration of his sentence or provide assurance that he does not pose an imminent threat to the children. Given that the court had earlier determined to bifurcate the case against respondent Ross D., dismissing all of the petitions at this stage of the proceedings is not only illogical but it also frustrates prompt resolution of these serious allegations of neglect (see Matter of Maria L., supra at 467). Concur—Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Andrias, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Shirley Werner Kornreich, J.), entered May 8, 2003, granting plaintiffs application to direct nonparty appellant to turn over its file in this case to plaintiff, unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, and the application denied. In or about July 2000, nonparty appellant Finkelstein Newman LLP (FNLLP) was retained by plaintiff Katherine Wankel, a building owner, to represent her in connection with an action for breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, rescission of a lease and injunctive relief against the building manager. In or about February 2003, FNLLP applied to the court to be relieved as plaintiffs counsel, claiming it had engaged in extensive motion practice and discovery, resulting in legal fees of $54,623.14, which plaintiff had failed to pay. On February 20, 2003, FNLLP’s application to withdraw was resolved by a stipulation, signed and so ordered by the court. It reads as follows: “It is hereby stipulated that the motion for leave to withdraw is granted. Charging lien in an amount to be determined at the conclusion of the case. [FNLLP] expressly reserves all other rights and remedies it is entitled to at law. All proceedings stayed for 30 days.” Plaintiff thereafter sought, by order to show cause, to compel FNLLP to release the plaintiffs files, which FNLLP refused to do because plaintiff still had made no payment toward the fee of $54,623.14. Plaintiff contended that the stipulation permitting FNLLP to withdraw granted the law firm a charging lien only, not a retaining lien. FNLLP countered that the stipulation’s grant of a charging lien did not deprive it of any of its other legal rights, including its right to assert a retaining lien over plaintiff’s files, which were in FNLLP’s possession, until plaintiff paid the $54,623.14 in legal fees or posted an undertaking securing the amount owed—a right FNLLP argues it specifically reserved in the stipulation. In an order entered May 8, 2003, the court granted plaintiffs application stating: “This matter (the dispute over legal fees) was settled before me and it was agreed that a charging lien, not a retaining lien, would issue. The . . . [illegible] wording of the written stipulation/order is ambiguous, does not change the agreement reached in open court, before this court.” A charging lien grants an attorney an interest in any judgment or settlement in favor of the client in the action in which the attorney previously represented the client. In contrast, a retaining lien permits the attorney to retain all of the client’s papers and files until all outstanding fees are paid (Butler, Fitzgerald & Potter v Gelmin, 235 AD2d 218, 219 [1997]). The award of a charging lien does not preclude an attorney from asserting a retaining lien as these remedies “are not exclusive but cumulative” (id. at 219). FNLLP did not waive its right to assert a retaining lien in the stipulation. Rather, the stipulation expressly reserved FNLLP’s “other rights and remedies ... at law.” Contrary to the motion court’s determination, the stipulation, entered into in open court, is not ambiguous and, thus, extrinsic evidence may not be considered in its interpretation (see Teitelbaum Holdings v Gold, 48 NY2d 51, 56 [1979]). Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Rosenberger and Marlow, JJ.
Verdict awarding plaintiff certain amount for past pain and suffering, but nothing for future pain and suffering, was supported by testimony of defendants’ expert orthopedist to extent he opined that, while trauma plaintiff sustained in slip-and-fall accident may have temporarily stimulated pain in her knee, plaintiff had recovered from effects of trauma by time of trial, and her continuing pain in knee arose from underlying condition of degenerative arthritis that long predated accident. Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Joan Madden; J.), entered August 8, 2002, which, after a jury trial, granted plaintiffs motion to set aside the verdict as to damages to the extent of directing a new trial on the issue of damages for past and future pain and suffering unless defendants stipulated to increase the award for past pain and suffering from $7,000 to $30,000, and the award for future pain and suffering from nothing to $60,000, unanimously reversed, on the law and the facts, without costs, the motion denied, and the verdict reinstated. The Clerk is directed to enter judgment accordingly. The jury’s verdict as to damages was supported by valid lines of reasoning and permissible inferences from the evidence at trial (see Cohen v Hallmark Cards, 45 NY2d 493, 499 [1978]), was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPLR 4404 [a]), and did not deviate materially from reasonable compensation under the circumstances (see CPLR 5501 [c]). In considering the conflicting testimony of the parties’ respective expert witnesses, the jury was not required to accept one expert’s testimony over that of the other, but was entitled to accept or reject either expert’s position in whole or in part (People v Justice, 173 AD2d 144, 146 [1991], citing People v Wood, 12 NY2d 69, 77 [1962]). The verdict awarding plaintiff $7,000 for past pain and suffering, but nothing for future pain and suffering, finds support in the testimony of defendants’ expert orthopedist to the extent he opined that, while the trauma plaintiff sustained in the subject slip-and-fall accident may have temporarily stimulated pain in her knee, plaintiff had recovered from the effects of the trauma by the time of trial, and her continuing pain in the knee arises from an underlying condition of degenerative arthritis that long predates the accident. We perceive no inconsistency between the foregoing and the award of damages for past medical expenses. Accordingly, the verdict should be reinstated. Concur—Sullivan, J.P., Rosenberger, Lerner, Friedman and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Alan Saks, J.), entered March 21, 2003, which granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, the motion denied and the complaint reinstated. There is no “ ‘minimal dimension test’ or per se rule that a defect must be of a certain minimum height or depth in order to be actionable” (Trincere v County of Suffolk, 90 NY2d 976, 977 [1997]). Even assuming that the dimensions of the .defect in the stair are as depicted by and measured in the photographs of defendants’ investigator, and that this depiction fairly represented the condition of the step at the time of plaintiff’s accident, issues of fact remain as to whether the nature of the step defect was so sharp and abrupt that a shoe heel could become caught in it, so as to constitute a tripping hazard (Gerber v West Hempstead Convenience, 303 AD2d 212 [2003]). Moreover, the “time, place and circumstance” of the injury must be considered (Trincere, 90 NY2d at 978, quoting Caldwell v Village of Is. Park, 304 NY 268, 274 [1952]). Although plaintiff acknowledged that she had been aware of the various holes or cracks in the staircase, it is not clear that she or any other tenant making normal use of the steps would have reason to suspect, from an upright walking position, that a shoe heel might become ensnared in the hole (see Nin v Bernard, 257 AD2d 417 [1999]). Finally, plaintiffs prior awareness of the defect, and the possibility that she may have been distracted from maintaining her footing because she was carrying her daughter and other items, “will impact the foreseeability of an accident and the comparative negligence of the injured party, but will not, as a matter of law, relieve a landowner of all duty to maintain his or her premises” (MacDonald v City of Schenectady, 308 AD2d 125, 129 [2003]). Concur—Tom, J.P., Andrias, Saxe and Williams, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Barbara Kapnick, J.), entered February 27, 2003, which, inter alia, vacated an order of dismissal based on plaintiffs’ default (same court and Justice), entered October 9, 2002, denied defendants’ motion and cross motion for an order dismissing the complaint, and restored the matter to the active pre-note of issue calendar on condition that plaintiffs’ counsel pay $500 costs to each of the two defense counsel, unanimously reversed, on the' law, the facts and in the exercise of discretion, without costs, the motion to vacate denied, defendants’ motion and cross motion to dismiss the complaint granted, and the complaint dismissed. The Clerk is directed to order judgment accordingly. Appeal from order, same court and Justice, entered March 13, 2003 (based on a transcript dated November 20, 2002), unanimously dismissed, without costs, as superseded by the appeal from the February 27, 2003 order. The motion court improvidently exercised its discretion in granting plaintiffs relief from their default. After properly dismissing the complaint due to plaintiffs’ failure to comply with the court’s discovery order, the court should have denied plaintiffs’ motion to vacate the dismissal since they failed to even attempt to show a meritorious cause of action (see Rivas v Expansion Group, 306 AD2d 188 [2003]; Polir Constr. v Etingin, 297 AD2d 509, 511-512 [2002]; Lopez v Imperial Delivery Serv., 282 AD2d 190, 197 [2001], lv dismissed 96 NY2d 937 [2001]). Concur — Andrias, J.E, Saxe, Williams, Marlow and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Micki Scherer, J.), rendered June 19, 2002, convicting defendant, upon her plea of guilty, of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the second degree and robbery in the first degree, and sentencing her to concurrent terms of seven years to life and seven years, unanimously modified, as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice, to the extent of reducing the sentence to concurrent terms of five years to life and five years, and otherwise affirmed. We find the sentence excessive to the extent indicated. Concur — Nardelli, J.E, Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Harold Beeler, J.), entered July 2, 2003, which granted defendant insurer’s motion to dismiss the complaint for failure to give timely notice of the underlying action, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The record demonstrates that the summons and complaint in the underlying action were served on the Secretary of State, who forwarded a copy to the insureds at the same address where the notice of default in that action was admittedly received approximately one year later. Concededly, if received, this was the first notice of the accident to the insureds. Having failed to establish that the signature on the certified mail receipt pertaining to the Secretary of State’s mailing did not belong to one of their employees or a person authorized to accept on their behalf (see Metropolitan Steel Indus. v Rosenshein Hub Dev. Corp., 257 AD2d 422 [1999]), the insureds are unable to provide an excuse for their failure to comply with the policy’s notice provisions (see Security Mut. Ins. Co. v Acker-Fitzsimons Corp., 31 NY2d 436, 440 [1972]; Travelers Ins. Co. v Volmar Constr. Co., 300 AD2d 40, 42-43 [2002]). Unlike Matter of Brandon (Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co.) (97 NY2d 491 [2002]), this is not a case where the carrier had prior notice of the claim before the action was commenced. We have considered plaintiffs’ other arguments and they are unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Mazzarelli, Sullivan, Rosenberger and Lerner, JJ.
Order, Family Court, New York County (George Jurow, J.), entered on or about August 12, 2002, which, after a trial, in this custody dispute, granted the petition to transfer custody of the subject children to petitioner father, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Family Court’s determination in a custody matter must be accorded great respect unless it lacks a sound and substantial basis in the record (see Matter of Gago v Acevedo, 214 AD2d 565 [1995], lv denied 86 NY2d 706 [1995]). Here, the record supports the determination of the court, which was uniquely well-situated to evaluate the credibility of the witnesses (see Matter of Brittni K., 297 AD2d 236, 237-238 [2002]), that the best interests of the children would be served by an award of custody to the father (see Walden v Walden, 112 AD2d 1035 [1985]). The father met his burden to justify a change in custody, particularly in light of the evidence of the efforts of the mother and her family to estrange him from the children (see Matter of Rebecca B., 204 AD2d 57, 59 [1994], lv denied 84 NY2d 808 [1994]). We have considered respondent mother’s remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Tom, J.E, Saxe, Sullivan, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Charles Ramos, J.), entered July 1, 2003, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the brief, denied defendant’s cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The court properly denied defendant’s cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground of usury. At the outset, we reject plaintiffs argument that the usury statute (Penal Law § 190.40) does not apply to this case. We further find that plaintiffs estoppel argument involves questions of fact to be raised at trial, and that defendant is not precluded, as a matter of law, from raising the defense of usury (see e.g. Pemper v Reifer, 264 AD2d 625 [1999]). “[WJhere usury does not appear on the face of the note, usury is a question of fact” (Freitas v Geddes Sav. & Loan Assn., 63 NY2d 254, 262 [1984]). Here, usury does not appear on the face of the note, and defendant’s usury argument depends on evidence that is extrinsic to the note. Thus, summary judgment was properly denied (see Greenfield v Skydell, 186 AD2d 391 [1992]). Moreover, there are factual issues concerning usurious intent that also preclude summary judgment. Where the note, on its face, is not illegal, “[u]surious intent, an essential element of usury, ... is a question of fact,” and “a bona fide mistake of fact vitiates usurious intent” (Freitas, 63 NY2d at 262). We have considered and rejected defendant’s remaining arguments. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Sullivan, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Richard Lowe, III, J.), entered November 27, 2002, which denied defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3211, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Although there is no indication from the motion court’s decision that the court took into account that the bills of lading issued by the nonparty ocean carrier contained a “Himalaya Clause” extending the liability protections contained within those bills to agents or subcontractors of the ocean carrier, we nonetheless affirm the denial of defendants’ motion because defendants’ documentary evidence does not establish that they were agents or subcontractors of the ocean carrier within the meaning of the “Himalaya Clause” at issue (see Citrus Mktg. Bd. of Israel v J. Lauritzen A/S, 943 F2d 220, 223-224 [1991]). We note, in addition, that plaintiffs causes of action against defendants pertain to defendants’ warehousing and inland processing of plaintiffs goods, which activities were not shown by defendants to be covered by the bills of lading clearly designating Los Angeles as the port of discharge, and making no provision for an additional destination inland (compare New York Mar. & Gen. Ins. Co. v S/S Ming Prosperity, 920 F Supp 416, 425 [1996]). Nor, in view of defendants’ failure to establish the applicability of the subject bills of lading, is dismissal required upon the ground that the bills’ forum selection clause provides that actions be brought in Hong Kong or that the bills preclude an award of damages against the carrier for loss caused by delay. Finally, that branch of defendants’ motion seeking dismissal upon the alternative ground of forum non conveniens was also properly denied, no showing having been made that California would be1 a more convenient forum than New York (see Banco Ambrosiano v Artoc Bank & Trust, 62 NY2d 65, 74 [1984]). Concur—Tom, J.P, Saxe, Sullivan, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Appeal from order of disposition, Family Court, Bronx County (Gayle Roberts, J.), entered on or about April 11, 2002, which, after a fact-finding determination of neglect, placed the subject child with petitioner Commissioner of the Administration for Children’s Services for a period of 12 months, unanimously dismissed as moot, without costs. Appeal from order, same court and Judge, entered on or about June 2, 1999, which denied respondent’s application for return of the child following his temporary removal from her home, unanimously dismissed as moot, without costs. Order, same court and Judge, entered on or about January 18, 2000, which, after a hearing, found that respondent had neglected the child, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The finding of neglect is supported by a preponderance of the evidence (Matter of Nicole V., 71 NY2d 112, 117 [1987]), including credited testimony of police officers that respondent was found intoxicated on the street late at night far from her home with her then two-year-old child, became loud and hostile when the officers inquired as to what she was doing, and exhibited bizarre behavior at the precinct (see Matter of Shyasia L., 286 AD2d 391 [2001], lv dismissed 97 NY2d 668 [2001]). We reject respondent’s contention that a single incident of this kind, where the parent’s judgment was strongly impaired and the child exposed to a risk of substantial harm, does not constitute neglect (cf. Matter of Victoria CC., 256 AD2d 931 [1998]). Under the circumstances, it does not avail respondent that the child did not suffer actual injury that night (see Matter of Billy Jean II, 226 AD2d 767 [1996]). Respondent’s appeal from the June 1999 order that denied her application for return of the child following his temporary removal from her home is dismissed, since that order expired upon entry of the fact-finding order in January 2000. Similarly, the appeal from the April 2002 dispositional order is dismissed, since its 12-month placement terms have expired (see Matter of Simone M., 298 AD2d 171). In any event, the placement is amply supported by evidence of respondent’s mental illness and continued substance abuse. Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Sullivan, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Charles Ramos, J.), entered October 4, 2002, which, in this action to recover a deposit under a contract of sale, denied defendant’s motion to vacate the default judgment entered against him for failure to appear or submit a responsive pleading, and referred the issue of damages to a special referee to hear and report with recommendations, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The record establishes that service of process was made upon defendant, the purchaser under a contract for the sale of a cooperative apartment, in Pennsylvania pursuant to both CPLR 308 (1) and (2) (CPLR 302, 313). Defendant’s contention that the affidavit of mailing was not filed with the court was improperly raised for the first time on appeal, and we decline to consider it (see Ta-Chotani v Doubleclick, Inc., 276 AD2d 313 [2000]). Upon consent to adjournment of the closing, plaintiff was entitled to “unilaterally impose a condition that time be of the essence as to the rescheduled date” (Miller v Almquist, 241 AD2d 181, 185 [1998]). The letter agreement between counsel adjourning the closing is unequivocal, and the date for performance is undeniably reasonable, having been set at defendant’s request (id.; Stefanelli v Vitale, 223 AD2d 361, 362 [1996]). As agent for defendant with at least apparent authority to act for his principal, counsel’s signature on the stipulation of adjournment bound defendant to its terms (see Hallock v State of New York, 64 NY2d 224, 230-232 [1984]). Defendant’s failure to appear at the scheduled closing is a breach of the contract of sale, and defendant has therefore failed to set forth a meritorious defense to the action (CPLR 5015; see Goncalves v Stuyvesant Dev. Assoc., 232 AD2d 275 [1996]). In any event, we further find that defendant has failed to establish a reasonable excuse for his default in appearance. Concur—Tom, J.P, Saxe, Sullivan, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Louise Gruner Gans, J.), entered August 12, 2003, which granted petitioner guarantor’s application to stay an arbitration demanded by respondent landlord insofar as the demand included the guarantor as well as the guarantor’s principal, the landlord’s tenant, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The IAS court correctly held that the guarantor is not a party to the lease agreement containing the arbitration clause. Although mentioned on the cover page and first paragraph of the lease, the remainder of the lease throughout provides that it is between the landlord and the tenant only, and nowhere does it refer to “all parties” rather than “both parties.” In addition, the guarantor did not sign any part of the body of the lease (compare Development Bank of Philippines v Chemtex Fibers, 617 F Supp 55, 56 [1985]), but only the guarantee itself, which does not contain an arbitration clause, refers to the “foregoing Lease” and is set out on a separate page that was not signed by the tenant. “In the absence of a specific agreement to arbitrate, the guarantors of a principal agreement containing an arbitration clause cannot be compelled to arbitrate .... A mere guarantee of performance does not constitute an assumption by the guarantor of the principal’s agreement to submit to arbitration” (Matter of Calvin Klein Co. [Minnetonka, Inc.], 88 AD2d 503, 504 [1982]). As the IAS court stated, any intention on the part of these sophisticated entities that the guarantor be party to arbitration between the landlord and tenant should have been less equivocal and more express. We have considered and rejected the landlord’s other arguments. Concur—Tom, J.E, Saxe, Sullivan, Lerner and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Ira Beal, J.), rendered March 23, 2001, convicting defendant, after a nonjury trial, of two counts each of unlawful imprisonment in the first degree and assault in the third degree, and sentencing him to a conditional discharge with 70 hours of community service, unanimously affirmed. The court’s verdict was based on legally sufficient evidence and was not against the weight of the evidence. There is no basis for disturbing the court’s determinations concerning credibility. The elements of first-degree unlawful imprisonment (Penal Law § 135.10) were satisfied by evidence that defendant, acting in concert with others, restrained the two victims while severely beating them and confining them under conditions that created a danger of suffocation. The extensive testimony of both victims concerning their injuries and resultant pain was sufficient to establish the physical injury element of third-degree assault (see People v Guidice, 83 NY2d 630, 636 [1994]). The unlawful imprisonment conviction did not merge with the assault conviction. The assailants’ actions in binding the victims’ mouths, hands and feet with tape, placing a plastic bag over one victim’s head, and placing the other victim inside a cardboard box, were not necessary and integral to, or inseparable from, the assault (see People v Gonzalez, 80 NY2d 146 [1992]). The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s motion to dismiss the unlawful imprisonment conviction in the interest of justice. There is no compelling factor warranting such dismissal (see CPL 210.40; People v Insignares, 109 AD2d 221 [1985], lv denied 65 NY2d 928 [1985]). Defendant participated in serious and violent attacks on the two victims, and his behavior far exceeded horseplay or practical jokes. We have considered and rejected defendant’s remaining claims. Concur—Buckley, PJ., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgments, Supreme Court, Bronx County (David Stadtmauer, J.), rendered April 19, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial and upon his plea of guilty, respectively, of two counts of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree,- and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to concurrent terms of 6 to 12 years, unanimously affirmed. Defendant was not deprived of a fair trial by evidence that he was found in possession of $89 in addition to prerecorded buy money. Were we to find any error in the admission of this evidence, we would find it to be harmless in view of the overwhelming evidence of defendant’s guilt (see People v Perez, 185 AD2d 147 [1992]). The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s mistrial motion made on the basis of an isolated improper remark during the prosecutor’s summation, since the court’s curative instruction was sufficient to prevent any prejudice (see People v Santiago, 52 NY2d 865 [1981]). Concur— Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Lewis Stone, J.), rendered November 9, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and criminal sale of a controlled substance on or near school grounds, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to concurrent terms of 6 to 12 years, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was not against the weight of the evidence. Defendant’s accessorial liability was established by evidence warranting the conclusion that defendant offered to sell the undercover officers a particular brand of drugs, and that upon the officers’ acceptance, defendant directed his companion to make the sale at a nearby location (see People v Bello, 92 NY2d 523 [1998]; People v Felix, 277 AD2d 131 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 734 [2001]). We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Concur— Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Family Court, Bronx County (Alma Cordova, J.), entered on or about December 14, 2000, which denied the petition pursuant to Family Court Act article 6 for custody of the subject child and continued custody of the child with the child’s grandmother, respondent Lillian E, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Family Court properly determined that respondent paternal grandmother demonstrated the existence of extraordinary circumstances detrimental to the child’s welfare should petitioner, the natural parent, obtain custody (see Matter of Bennett v Jeffreys, 40 NY2d 543, 544 [1976]). The record discloses that petitioner gave physical custody of the child to respondent and thereafter visited him irregularly at best, i.e., only when it was “convenient.” Eetitioner did not contribute to the child’s support, and appeared oblivious to his special needs. Eetitioner planned to move to Florida, but did not indicate how she would live or where she would work. At the time of the hearing, the child was four years old and had lived with his grandmother for three of those years, only one of which overlapped with petitioner’s attempt to regain custody. As the court found, the grandmother, in contrast to petitioner, appeared to have a full grasp of the child’s needs, and was providing for them. Concur— Buckley, EJ., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Michael Obús, J.), rendered February 9, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to a term of 3Va to 7 years, and judgment, same court (Charles Tejada, J.), rendered July 10, 2002, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree, and sentencing him, as a second felony offender, to a concurrent term of 4V2 to 9 years, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was not against the weight of the evidence. Issues of credibility were properly considered by the jury and there is no basis for disturbing its determinations (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Concur — Buckley, EJ, Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Ira Gammerman, J.), entered July 23, 2002, which, in this action seeking, inter alia, declaratory relief, upon the court’s prior grant of partial summary judgment to defendants and its confirmation of the referee’s finding that plaintiffs were duly notified of the issuance of new shares in defendant East Broadway Mall, Inc., dismissed the complaint, unanimously modified, on the law, to declare in defendants’ favor that the complained-of issuance of the new shares in East Broadway Mall, Inc. did not violate the Shareholders’ Agreement, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. The complaint was properly dismissed since the challenged conduct of defendants in issuing new shares of stock and selling those shares to parties other than plaintiffs did not violate the Shareholders’ Agreement, and was otherwise shielded from judicial scrutiny under the business judgment rule. Plaintiffs failed to meet their burden to demonstrate that defendants acted in bad faith or to serve interests other than those of the corporation (see 40 W. 67th St. v Pullman, 100 NY2d 147 [2003]). We modify only to declare in defendants’ favor (see Lanza v Wagner, 11 NY2d 317, 334 [1962], appeal dismissed 371 US 74 [1962], cert denied 371 US 901 [1962]). We have considered plaintiffs’ remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, PJ., Ellerin, Lerner and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Karla Moskowitz, J.), entered October 15, 2002, which granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint in this action for breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, and breach of the contractual obligation to deal fairly and in good faith, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The motion court properly concluded that plaintiffs failed to raise any triable issues of fact with regard to defendants’ demonstration that the alleged contractual and tortious breaches were not the proximate cause of plaintiffs’ failure to acquire the target corporation (see Swain v Schieffelin, 134 NY 471, 473 [1892]; Rose Lee Mfg. v Chemical Bank, 186 AD2d 548, 551 [1992]). The minutes of a Board of Directors meeting and deposition testimony established a prima facie case that the corporation’s decision not to sell to plaintiffs was based on the latter’s historical inability to obtain reliable equity backing (especially regarding the unfavorable reputation of their latest source of financing) such as might jeopardize HUD approval, and the perceived lack of candor on the part of plaintiff Frydman’s principal. The Board members were apparently aware, at a crucial meeting in October 1997, of defendants’ counsel’s communication to the corporation’s counsel that there would be no “impediment” to providing financing to another named bidder, a communication that plaintiffs consider to be a breach of defendants’ obligations to them. Nevertheless, plaintiffs failed to set forth any evidence that this knowledge was a factor in—let alone the proximate cause of—the Board’s rejection of plaintiffs’ bid. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order and judgment (one paper), Supreme Court, New York County (Michael Stallman, J.), entered on or about January 27, 2003, which denied petitioner’s Freedom of Information Law application, and dismissed the petition, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Eetitioner’s request to respondent District Attorney was for “ ‘a reasonably detailed current list by subject matter, of all records in the possession of the agency, whether or not available under this article,’ ” quoting Eublic Officers Law § 87 (3) (c). Respondent’s response was a list enumerating 215 types of documents. Dissatisfied, petitioner brought the instant CPLR article 78 proceeding, claiming that the list is incomplete because it does not contain “all prosecution case file(s)” and “each and every record contained in each prosecution case file(s).” According to petitioner, the list “should have been updated daily” to reflect particular reports, statements, arrests and indictments as they occur. The proceeding was properly dismissed. Respondent’s subject matter list need not refer to each and every document his agency maintains, but only to categories of records in detail sufficient to permit an applicant to “identify the category of records that may include the records sought” (Matter of Allen v Strojnowski, 129 AD2d 700, 701 [1987], appeal dismissed and lv denied 70 NY2d 871 [1987]). Concur—Buckley, PJ., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Robert Straus, J.), entered July 23, 2002, which, insofar as appealed from as limited by the briefs, denied defendant New York City Housing Authority’s motion to dismiss the complaint for plaintiffs failure to comply with appellant’s demands for physical and oral examinations pursuant to General Municipal Law § 50-h, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff provided a reasonable excuse for her failure to appear at the noticed examinations. Unlike the plaintiff in Best v City of New York (97 AD2d 389 [1983], affd 61 NY2d 847 [1984]), plaintiff here did not repeatedly schedule the examinations and then fail to appear. Moreover, appellant acquired early actual knowledge of the facts constituting the claim and was not substantially prejudiced by the delay (see Jusino v New York City Hous. Auth., 255 AD2d 41, 46-47 [1999]). Concur—Buckley, PJ., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order and judgment (one paper), Supreme Court, New York County (Walter Tolub, J.), entered May 13, 2003, which denied plaintiffs motion for a Yellowstone injunction, declared plaintiff in violation of its lease, and granted defendant’s cross motion to dismiss the complaint, unanimously modified, on the law, the facts and in the exercise of discretion, to the extent of granting plaintiff’s motion for a Yellowstone injunction and granting plaintiff leave to file an amended complaint, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. The sublease of part of the premises for use as a thrift shop did violate the use provisions of the lease, which prohibited, among other things, the operation of a “secondhand,” cooperative or “surplus” store, or a “discount” house, in the premises. However, plaintiff satisfied the criteria for the issuance of Yellowstone relief, having established that it held a commercial lease, received a notice of default, timely requested injunctive relief, and stated its preparedness and ability to cure the alleged default (225 E. 36th St. Garage Corp. v 221 E. 36th Owners Corp., 211 AD2d 420, 421 [1995]). The readiness to cure was in the form of a notice of default that plaintiff issued to its subtenant, which threatened termination of the sublease unless the use violation were cured within five days. Clearly, the existence of the subtenant’s business operation itself constituted the violation, and only termination of that sublease would satisfy the obligation to cure. We have considered plaintiffs remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Amended judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Edward Davidowitz, J.), rendered August 17, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of murder in the second degree and attempted murder in the second degree, and sentencing him to consecutive terms of 25 years to life and 7 to 21 years, respectively, unanimously affirmed. Following remittal by the Court of Appeals (95 NY2d 486 [2000]), the court conducted a Darden hearing (People v Darden, 34 NY2d 177 [1974]) and determined, after an ex parte, in camera examination of a confidential informant, that there was probable cause for defendant’s arrest. The record, including the informant’s testimony at the Darden hearing, establishes a continuing need to keep the informant’s identity confidential. The hearing court’s in camera review of prior statements by the informant was appropriate given the principles underlying Darden (see also People v Castillo, 80 NY2d 578, 584 [1992], cert denied 507 US 1033 [1993]). Upon our own review of the hearing record, we find that the court properly concluded that there was probable cause for defendant’s arrest and that the resulting identifications were not the product of any. unlawful police conduct. Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ. [See 2001 NY Slip Op 40112(U).]
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Richard Braun, J.), entered November 14, 2002, which granted third-party defendant’s motion to dismiss the third-party complaint, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Third-party plaintiffs, who were the primary insurer and counsel for a defendant who defaulted in a personal injury action brought by third-party defendant’s client, do not identify a “ ‘chronic, extreme pattern of legal delinquency’ ” (Schindler v Issler & Schrage, 262 AD2d 226, 228 [1999], lv dismissed 94 NY2d 791 [1999]) warranting civil sanctions against third-party defendant for having allegedly deceived the court into granting the default. The appropriate forum for hearing this complaint was the court where the default was litigated. Concur—Buckley, EJ., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Louise Gruner Gans, J.), entered April 24, 2003, which, in a proceeding to stay an uninsured motorist arbitration, denied additional respondent-appellant insurer’s motion to vacate its default in appearing at a framed issue hearing, with leave to renew upon proper papers, unanimously affirmed, with costs. The motion is supported by an affirmation of an attorney in the law firm representing appellant, which is made on information and belief and, for an excuse, simply states that appellant’s failure to attend the framed issue hearing was due to “miscalendaring.” The motion court properly rejected this statement as inexplicably made by a person who lacks personal knowledge of the calendaring of the framed issue hearing, and otherwise lacking the detail necessary to show that the failure to calendar the matter accurately was excusable (see Matter of Wynyard v Antique Co., 247 AD2d 265 [1998]). Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Milton Tingling, J.), entered August 9, 2002, which, inter alia, denied, in part, plaintiffs’ motion seeking additional discovery, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Although defendants, individually, may, within the time prescribed by CPLR 3122, have failed to challenge the propriety of certain of the discovery requests, inquiry into the propriety of such discovery requests was not foreclosed, the requests having been palpably improper by reason of the irrelevance of the material sought (see Perez v Board of Educ. of City of N.Y., 271 AD2d 251 [2000]). The motion court properly exercised its discretion in denying plaintiffs’ request for a specific deposition witness and allowing defendant Tri-State Newspaper Service, Inc. to produce a different additional witness in light of plaintiffs’ failure to demonstrate a substantial likelihood that the witness they desired to depose possessed information material and necessary to the prosecution of their case (see Saxe v City of New York, 250 AD2d 751 [1998]). The court properly precluded inquiry by plaintiffs at deposition into the negotiation and formation of the independent contract executed by the offending newspaper delivery driver with Tri-State. Plaintiffs made no showing that the integrated independent contract was ambiguous so as to render extrinsic evidence relevant upon the issue of the contracting parties’ intent (see generally A.H.A. Gen. Constr. v New York City Hous. Auth., 92 NY2d 20, 33 [1998]). Discovery of certain documents sought by plaintiffs to support their conjecture that liability may be established based on an alter ego theory was properly denied (see e.g. New Haven Props. v Grinberg, 293 AD2d 386 [2002]), particularly since the integrated agreements between the various defendants render such a theory legally insufficient. We note that the court granted plaintiffs’ request for a copy of the City and Suburban contract. We have considered plaintiffs’ remaining arguments and find them unavailing. Concur—Buckley, RJ., Tom, Ellerin and Gonzalez, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Dianne Renwick, J.), entered December 19, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from, denied the motion of defendants St. Joseph’s Seminary and the Archdiocese for summary judgment on contractual and common-law indemnification against defendant Fitzgerald, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Although there is no evidence of appellants’ negligence or supervision of the work sufficient to hold them other than vicariously liable under Labor Law § 240 (1), they have failed to present proof to establish general contractor Fitzgerald’s negligence, which is necessary for indemnification under the specific terms of the contract (Keohane v Littlepark House Corp., 290 AD2d 382 [2002]; Correia v Professional Data Mgt., 259 AD2d 60, 64 [1999]). With regard to common-law indemnification, issues of fact exist as to who erected the scaffolding which collapsed, and whether Fitzgerald had sufficient control and supervision over the work to be held liable in negligence. A general duty to supervise the work and ensure compliance with safety standards is insufficient to impose such liability (see Buccini v 1568 Broadway Assoc., 250 AD2d 466, 469 [1998]). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P, Saxe, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Ronald Zweibel, J.), rendered November 15, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of attempted robbery in the second degree, and sentencing him, as a second violent felony offender, to a term of seven years, unanimously affirmed. The trial court properly refused to submit attempted robbery in the third degree to the jury as a lesser included offense, since there was no reasonable view of the evidence, viewed most favorably to defendant, that the defendant committed the lesser offense but not the greater offense (see People v Lopez, 73 NY2d 214, 221-222 [1989]; People v Simmons, 186 AD2d 95, 96 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 976 [1993]). The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s request, made at the start of trial, to hire private counsel (see People v Arroyave, 49 NY2d 264, 271-272 [1980]). The last-minute substitution would have caused serious delay and inconvenience, particularly since the People had already brought the victim, a foreign national, back from overseas to testify. Furthermore, defendant did not “demonstrate that the requested adjournment [was] necessitated by forces beyond his control and [was] not simply a dilatory tactic” (id. at 272). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.E, Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Michael Stallman, J.), entered May 17, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from, in this action to recover penalties assessed for defendant Consolidated Edison’s (Con Edison) failure to perform utility interference work in accordance with the requirements of Administrative Code of the City of New York § 24-521, granted plaintiffs motion for summary judgment and directed the Clerk to enter judgment in plaintiffs favor in the principal amount of $385,000, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiffs notices to remove obstructions were not arbitrary or capricious (see Matter of Pell v Board of Educ., 34 NY2d 222, 231 [1974]; City of New York v Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y., 114 AD2d 217, 223 [1986]). Such notices were issued subsequent to the expiration of the three-month period requested by defendant Con Edison for relocation of its obstructing facilities and, evidently, in the absence of any request by defendant for an extension, and the delay in the affected municipal sewer project, located near an elementary school and necessitating extensive street excavation, would likely have been detrimental to the public welfare. Defendant’s arguments that plaintiffs notices were arbitrary and capricious do not raise triable issues of fact. Neither the common law nor Administrative Code § 24-521 required plaintiff to act as an arbitrator between its contractor and defendant or to permit defendant to relocate its facilities onto public land. We reject defendant’s argument that section 24-521 is limited to direct, as opposed to indirect, interferences (see City of New York v Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y., 274 AD2d 189, 192 [2000], appeal dismissed 96 NY2d 727 [2001]). Plaintiff’s language makes no such distinction. Defendant’s argument that it did not receive adequate notice until September 15, 1999 of the penalties to which it was exposed for failing to timely remove the obstructions is unavailing. The references in the July 1999 notices to Administrative Code § 24-521, which in turn refers to Administrative Code § 19-150, should have alerted defendant to the possibility that it faced a penalty of up to $5,000 per day, especially since defendant has frequently litigated the issue of interferences (see Matter of Diamond Asphalt Corp. v Sander, 92 NY2d 244 [1998]; Matter of Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y. v Lindsay, 24 NY2d 309 [1969]; City of New York, 274 AD2d 189, supra; Matter of General Contrs. Assn. of N.Y. v Tormenta, 259 AD2d 177 [1999], lv denied 95 NY2d 754 [2000]; Matter of Trocom Constr. Corp. v Sander, 251 AD2d 17 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 811 [1998]). The $5,000 per day penalty is not so disproportionate to the offense as to shock our sense of fairness (Pell, 34 NY2d at 233). We have warned defendant on at least two prior occasions that it “does not have the option to leave the interferences in place, and thereby delay projects pending efforts to induce contractors to do the work at a price [it] deems fair” (City of New York, 274 AD2d at 194; City of New York v Consolidated Edison, 114 AD2d at 220). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.E, Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Nicholas Iacovetta, J.), rendered August 7, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of criminal sale of a controlled substance in or near school grounds and criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree, and sentencing her, as a second felony offender, to concurrent terms of 4x/2 to 9 years, unanimously affirmed. The verdict was not against the weight of the evidence. Issues of credibility, including the weight to be given to inconsistencies in testimony, were properly considered by the jury and there is no basis for disturbing its determinations (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s mistrial motion, made during jury selection after several prospective jurors complained about defendant’s latenesses for court. The court excused the complaining panelists, provided the remaining panelists with limiting instructions, and asked them as a group if they could be fair. The court also offered to question the prospective jurors individually, but defendant declined that offer. Accordingly, there was no basis for the drastic remedy of a mistrial (see People v Stuckey, 220 AD2d 223 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 977 [1996]). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.E, Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Determination of respondent Housing Authority, dated July 10, 2002, denying petitioner’s application for “remaining family member” status in an apartment, unanimously confirmed, the petition denied and the proceeding (transferred to this Court by order of Supreme Court, New York County [Harold Beeler, J], entered February 6, 2003) dismissed, without costs. Substantial evidence supports the Authority’s determination that petitioner was not entitled to succeed as a tenant to the apartment he purportedly shared with his now-deceased father since 1994. There is no evidence that the landlord had actual or constructive notice of the late tenant’s desire for petitioner to succeed to the tenancy, that petitioner had ever made a written request for such status, or that the landlord had even known of petitioner’s purported co-occupancy (see Matter of Powell v Franco, 276 AD2d 430 [2000]). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.E, Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Michael Obus, J.), rendered September 12, 2002, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of criminal possession of a weapon in the second and third degrees and resisting arrest, and sentencing him, as a second violent felony offender, to concurrent terms of 10 years, 7 years and 1 year, with 5 years postrelease supervision, unanimously modified, as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice, to the extent of vacating the conviction for criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree and dismissing that count of the indictment, and otherwise affirmed. In response to defense attacks on the credibility of the police witnesses, the prosecutor made proper arguments in support of their credibility and did not express any personal opinion (see People v Bryant, 294 AD2d 221 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 534 [2002]; People v Overlee, 236 AD2d 133, 144 [1997], lv denied 91 NY2d 976 [1998]; People v D’Alessandro, 184 AD2d 114, 118-119 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 884 [1993]). Defendant’s remaining challenges to the People’s summation are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would find that the challenged remarks generally constituted fair comment on the evidence, and reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom, made in response to defense arguments, and that the summation did not deprive defendant of a fair trial (see People v Overlee, supra; People v D’Alessandro, 184 AD2d 114, 118-119 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 884 [1993]). To the extent that any portions of the summation could be viewed as improper, we conclude that the court’s curative actions were sufficient to prevent any prejudice (see People v Santiago, 52 NY2d 865 [1981]). The verdict convicting defendant of second-degree weapon possession was not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490 [1987]). The totality of the evidence, viewed in light of the presumption contained in Penal Law § 265.15 (4), established that defendant possessed a weapon with the requisite unlawful intent. Since defendant’s third-degree weapon possession conviction is based on the same possession of the identical weapon underlying his second-degree weapon possession conviction, we vacate the third-degree possession conviction in the interest of justice (see People v Riddick, 307 AD2d 821, 822 [2003]). Concur— Mazzarelli, J.P, Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (James Yates, J.), entered on or about September 27, 2002, dismissing the CPLR article 78 petition seeking to annul a determination of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD) which had issued to Tri-Faith Housing Company a certificate of eviction against petitioner, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Petitioner’s claim that the HPD hearing officer exceeded her authority and abused her discretion in issuing the certificate of eviction, thereby refusing to allow him the opportunity to cure his default, is unpersuasive. The record reflects substantial evidence supporting the finding that petitioner’s historic and continuous refusal to grant the management company periodic access to his apartment, as required under 28 RCNY 3-16 (f) (14), and his persistent failure to pay maintenance in order to try to effect changes in management, constituted a nuisance warranting eviction, under 28 RCNY 3-18 (b). The hearing officer justifiably found that petitioner’s past behavior demonstrated the futility of affording an opportunity to cure. Petitioner’s due process rights were adequately protected. The charges against him in the preliminary notice, coupled with the information provided in the final default notice, were reasonably calculated to apprise petitioner of the proceeding and his opportunity to be heard (see Kennedy v Mossafa, 100 NY2d 1, 9 [2003]). The hearing officer’s consideration of hearsay evidence does not warrant a different outcome (Matter of Gelco Bldrs. v Holtzman, 168 AD2d 232, 233 [1990], lv denied 77 NY2d 810 [1991]). Nor is petitioner’s invocation of RPAPL 753 (4) and its 10-day postadjudication cure period availing, because that statute does not apply to administrative proceedings (Matter of O’Quinn v New York City Dept. of Hous. Preservation & Dev., 284 AD2d 211, 212 [2001]). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P, Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Douglas McKeon, J.), entered February 7, 2003, which, in a medical malpractice action, denied defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiffs expert’s affidavit raises issues of fact as to whether, inter alia, defendants incorrectly diagnosed and treated the decedent’s condition as cancer, and, if so, whether such error was due to a departure from accepted standards calling for diagnostic tests ruling out multiple sclerosis and vascular compromise. Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P, Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Stanley Green, J.), entered October 3, 2002, which granted defendants’ motions for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously modified, on the law, to reinstate the Labor Law § 200 and common-law negligence claims against defendant general contractor Champion Combustion, Inc., and otherwise affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff, while working on a boiler installation project, was standing on a permanent staircase, with one foot on the bottom step and the other on the third step from the bottom step, holding onto steel plates that were stacked vertically on the floor and were about chest high. Plaintiff was injured when his coworkers attempted to remove a steel plate from the pile, causing the pile to shift and fall onto him. Plaintiffs Labor Law § 240 (1) claim was properly dismissed since the plates he was lifting were not elevated above the work site and his activities did not otherwise involve the extraordinary elevation-related risks envisioned by that statute (see Melo v Consolidated Edison Co., 92 NY2d 909, 911 [1998]; Rodriguez v Tietz Ctr. for Nursing Care, 84 NY2d 841 [1994]; Jackson v Williamsville Cent. School Dist., 229 AD2d 985 [1996]). Moreover, even if plaintiff himself were considered to have been working at an elevation, the staircase on which he stood did not malfunction and he did not fall from it (see Narducci v Manhasset Bay Assoc., 96 NY2d 259, 269 [2001]). The Labor Law § 241 (6) claim was properly dismissed since the Industrial Code sections relied upon are either nonspecific or inapplicable (see Ross v Curtis-Palmer Hydro-Elec. Co., 81 NY2d 494, 503-504 [1993]). We reinstate plaintiff’s Labor Law § 200 and common-law negligence claims against the general contractor whose contractual obligation to supervise the subcontractors and to ensure safe practices was so broad and comprehensive as to displace the owner’s own responsibility in that regard (see Espinal v Melville Snow Contrs., 98 NY2d 136, 140 [2002]; see also Heller v 83rd St. Invs. Ltd. Partnership, 228 AD2d 371 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 815 [1996]). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.E, Saxe, Williams and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Barbara Kapnick, J.), entered December 3, 2002, which, insofar as appealed from, granted defendant-respondent security company’s motion for partial summary judgment dismissing the first cause of action for false imprisonment, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff, who was among several individuals asked by a security guard to submit to a strip search before receiving treatment at defendant hospital, failed to establish the guard’s intention to confine him, an essential element of the tort of false imprisonment (Broughton v State of New York, 37 NY2d 451, 456 [1975], cert denied sub nom. Schanbarger v Kellogg, 423 US 929 [1975]). The fact that plaintiff was a vulnerable consumer in need of hospital services may have created a coercive situation in his mind, but he does not allege, nor is there any evidence, that he was prevented from leaving the premises (see Arrington v Liz Claiborne, Inc., 260 AD2d 267 [1999]). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P., Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Walter Tolub, J.), entered October 9, 2002, granting petitioner’s motion for preaction discovery and ordering respondents to preserve and produce copies of any videotapes in their possession taken in the area of Vesey and Liberty Streets in Manhattan on March 30, 2002, unanimously modified, on the law and the facts, to limit the production of such existing video recordings to those taken in the designated area between the hours of 3:00 and 5:00 p.m. on that date, and further to provide that any such videotapes first be viewed by the court in camera for security purposes prior to production to petitioner, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. The information sought is material and necessary to petitioner’s viable claim, in assisting her to identify prospective defendants (Matter of Stewart v New York City Tr. Auth., 112 AD2d 939 [1985]). However, the order was overly broad in containing no time limitation, petitioner having sought disclosure regarding an accident that allegedly occurred at approximately 4:00 p.m. It is recognized that the video recordings, if they exist, may be protected by a public interest privilege (Cirale v 80 Pine St. Corp., 35 NY2d 113, 117 [1974]) to the extent that they might compromise security systems and procedures in the vicinity of the World Trade Center. Accordingly, the court should first undertake an in camera review of any existing video materials to determine if they are covered by the public interest privilege (Matter of World Trade Ctr. Bombing Litig., 93 NY2d 1, 8-9 [1999]). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P., Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Janice Bowman, J.), entered September 9, 2002, which, after a hearing, denied petitioner’s application to stay the uninsured motorist arbitration between the parties, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Applying the law of New Jersey, where the vehicle was registered and formerly insured (see Government Empls. Ins. Co. v Sheerin, 65 AD2d 10 [1978]), we find that respondent insurer made a valid offer (including a second notice) to renew the policy it had issued to respondent Perez, the vehicle owner, in accordance with applicable regulations. This offer was not accepted by timely payment of the premium. As a result, the policy lapsed on the expiration date (Lopez v New Jersey Auto. Full Ins. Underwriting Assn., 239 NJ Super 13, 17, 570 A2d 994, 995 [1990], cert denied 122 NJ 131, 584 A2d 206 [1990]), which was prior to the date of the accident. There are no circumstances here supporting petitioner’s claim that the termination of the policy was a cancellation, requiring formal notice, rather than a nonrenewal (cf. Miller v Reis, 189 NJ Super 437, 460 A2d 210 [1983]). Concur—Buckley, P.J., Tom, Ellerin and Lerner, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Barbara Newman, J.), rendered May 2, 2002, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of assault in the first degree and robbery in the second degree, and-sentencing him to consecutive terms of 10 years and 5 years, unanimously affirmed. The verdict convicting defendant of assault in the first degree, and rejecting his justification defense, was based on legally sufficient evidence and was not against the weight of the evidence. There is no basis for disturbing the jury’s determinations concerning credibility. In any event, regardless of who may have been the initial aggressor, defendant was not justified in stabbing the victim while he was lying, unarmed, on the ground (see People v Centeno, 291 AD2d 265 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 649 [2002]). As to the robbery conviction, the evidence established that defendant forcibly took a van from the second victim and that defendant intended to deprive the victim of his van or to appropriate it to himself (see Penal Law § 155.00 [3], [4]; People v Jennings, 69 NY2d 103, 118-119 [1986]). We perceive no basis for reducing the sentence. Defendant’s remaining contentions, including those contained in his pro se supplemental brief, are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would reject them. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Ira Gammerman, J.), entered November 20, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from, granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the second cause of action for breach of contract, unanimously affirmed, with costs. Plaintiff filed suit against various underwriters (Lloyd’s), after its claim for losses arising from employee theft was denied for, inter alia, failure to file a timely notice of claim as well as timely proof of loss, and failure to cooperate. The IAS court dismissed the lawsuit because it was not filed within the time period recited in the insurance policy for commencement (i.e., two years from the date of discovery of the loss). Plaintiff argued that it was lulled into not filing suit earlier by Lloyd’s conduct in refraining from sending out a disclaimer until after the time for suit had run. At the outset, we note that there is evidence of bad faith by Lloyd’s, since two of the grounds for disclaimer—lack of timely notice of claim and lack of timely proof of loss—were known to it long before the disclaimer letter was issued. However, plaintiff has not demonstrated the existence of any conduct, passive or active, by Lloyd’s that could reasonably be construed as having duped plaintiff into refraining from initiating a lawsuit. In this regard, we note that plaintiff waited seven months after the disclaimer was sent before it commenced this lawsuit. More important, plaintiff, also an insurance company, has failed to show that there were any communications that would have suggested that upon the conclusion of the investigation the claim would be paid, or even that Lloyd’s had requested plaintiff to refrain from commencing a lawsuit pending an investigation. Thus, there is no showing of detrimental reliance, a necessary element of estoppel (see Blitman Constr. Corp. v Insurance Co. of N. Am., 66 NY2d 820, 823 [1985]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Lawrence Tonetti, J.), rendered March 1, 2001, convicting defendant, after a jury trial, of murder in the second degree, and sentencing him to a term of 25 years to life, unanimously affirmed. Although the court should have employed the standard charge (see CJI2d[NY] Presumption of Innocence, Burden of Proof, Reasonable Doubt), the court’s charge, read as a whole, did not shift or misstate the burden of proof or expressly impose an affirmative obligation upon jurors to articulate a basis for harboring a reasonable doubt (see People v Antommarchi, 80 NY2d 247, 251-252 [1992]), and we find no basis for reversal. Defendant’s challenges to the court’s charges on justification and intent are unpreserved and we decline to review them in the interest of justice. Were we to review these claims, we would find that these charges were sufficiently balanced and did not unfairly marshal the evidence. The record fails to support defendant’s claim that the court improperly delegated judicial authority to a court officer. Even where an error need not be preserved by objection, a defendant alleging such an error “must nevertheless present an adequate record for appellate review” (People v Velasquez, 1 NY3d 44, 48 [2003], citing People v Kinchen, 60 NY2d 772 [1983]). The existing record, even if viewed most favorably to defendant, indicates that the communication between a court officer and a juror occurred in the presence of the court, the attorneys and defendant, and constituted an inquiry that was ministerial in any event (see People v Bonaparte, 78 NY2d 26 [1991]; People v Estevez, 176 AD2d 194, 195 [1991], lv denied 79 NY2d 856 [1992]). The court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s mistrial motion, and in allowing the People to introduce photographs that they had inadvertently failed to disclose during pretrial discovery proceedings (see People v Jenkins, 98 NY2d 280 [2002]). The untimely disclosure resulted, at most, in some cross-examination of a People’s witness that was “superfluous but not detrimental to the defense” (People v Martin, 249 AD2d 75, 75-76 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 927 [1998]; see also People v McAndris, 300 AD2d 1, 2 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 630 [2003]), and the court’s thorough jury instruction was sufficient to prevent any prejudice. Concur— Nardelli, J.R, Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Alice Schlesinger, J.), entered October 3, 2002, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the briefs, granted defendant Rolfe’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Plaintiff seeks damages for alleged misappropriation of property from her mother’s estate by defendant Rolfe under such theories as fraud and undue influence, or outright conversion. She also seeks damages for Rolfe’s alleged infliction of emotional distress by poisoning plaintiff against her family, thus exacerbating her mental disease. We agree with the IAS court that plaintiffs property claims are precluded by prior proceedings in Surrogate’s Court, where the executor submitted an accounting of all personal property and rights thereto. The items of which plaintiff complains were not included in that accounting. Plaintiff’s interests were adequately represented by a guardian ad litem in that proceeding. Moreover, her brother, Peter Vale, became her guardian under Mental Hygiene Law article 81 well before litigation on the accounting was resolved. Nevertheless, the only challenge to that accounting was lodged by the trustees of the fund slated to receive the proceeds from sale of the estate’s assets. This challenge, limited to the price obtained for decedent’s apartment, was rejected by the Surrogate, and we affirmed (Matter of Vale, 291 AD2d 353 [2002]). Plaintiff is bound by the decision of her guardian not to pursue the property claims in that proceeding (see Buechel v Bain, 97 NY2d 295 [2001], cert denied 535 US 1096 [2002]). Plaintiff’s remaining claim, for intentional infliction of emotional distress, fails as a matter of law. The conduct alleged — lying to plaintiff and turning her against her family — is insufficiently extreme and outrageous as to support such a claim (see Ruggiero v Contemporary Shells, 160 AD2d 986 [1990]). Concur — Tom, J.P, Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Harold Beeler, J), entered January 2, 2003, which granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment and dismissed the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs. There is no evidence that defendants had actual or constructive notice of the defective condition that caused plaintiff’s injury (see Juarez v Wavecrest Mgt. Team, 88 NY2d 628, 646 [1996]). The court properly disregarded plaintiffs affidavit on the issue of notice since it contradicted his prior deposition testimony and was clearly tailored to create an issue of fact (Phillips v Bronx Lebanon Hosp., 268 AD2d 318, 320 [2000]). Concur — Nardelli, J.P, Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Stanley Green, J.), entered December 18, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion to vacate a default judgment granted in July 2002 and denied plaintiff’s cross motion to dismiss defendant’s motion, and order, same court and Justice, entered July 8, 2003, which, insofar as appealable, denied plaintiffs motion to renew, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Given the preference for the disposition of cases on the merits, the court exercised its discretion in a provident manner by vacating the default judgment. Defendant established a reasonable excuse for the default (CPLR 5015 [a]) and a meritorious defense to the personal injury action arising out of a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs motion for renewal was based upon evidence that was available at the time of the original motion to vacate the default and, in any event, was irrelevant to the instant matter. We have considered plaintiffs remaining contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Carol Berk-man, J.), rendered February 4, 2003, convicting defendant, upon his plea of guilty, of robbery in the second degree, and sentencing him to a term of four years, unanimously affirmed. The court properly declined to sentence defendant as a youthful offender. Since defendant was convicted of an armed felony, youthful offender treatment would require a showing of mitigating circumstances (CPL 720.10 [2] [a] [ii]; [3]), and we do not find that such circumstances were present. In any event, given the circumstances of the crime, denial of youthful offender treatment was a proper exercise of discretion. Concur—Nardelli, J.P, Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Edward Lehner, J.), entered on or about February 20, 2003, which dismissed the petition challenging a certificate of appropriateness issued by respondent Landmarks Preservation Commission on February 11, 2002, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The parties agree that the issuance of the certificate of appropriateness would have required a second public hearing had the proposal, considered at the public meeting in response to community objections, been a substantial deviation from that originally presented (see e.g. Coalition of Institutionalized Aged & Disabled v Perales, 200 AD2d 704 [1994]). Since this question turns on esoteric architectural aspects of the original and amended proposals, it cannot be answered without knowledge within respondent agency’s particular area of expertise. Therefore, the IAS court appropriately deferred to the agency’s determination (see Matter of Committee to Save the Beacon Theater v City of New York, 146 AD2d 397, 405 [1989]), which had a rational basis (see e.g. City of New York v Shakespeare, 202 AD2d 237 [1994], lv dismissed 84 NY2d 923 [1994]). Significantly, the public was fully apprised, in the initial public hearing, of the intervening respondent’s intent to build into the space behind its brownstone building, albeit in a cantilevered design that was subsequently modified. Concur—Nardelli, J.E, Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Alan Saks, J.), entered January 31, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion to vacate a default judgment, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Defendant’s 1996 default was properly vacated pursuant to CPLR 317 and 5015 (a) upon evidence in the form of detailed affidavits which established that defendant had not personally received notice of the summons in time to defend, and that it had a meritorious defense to plaintiffs’ slip-and-fall personal injury action (see Eugene Di Lorenzo, Inc. v Dutton Lbr. Co., 67 NY2d 138 [1986]). There was no basis in the record to conclude that defendant had deliberately attempted to avoid service in this action by its failure to designate a new registered agent for service with the Secretary of State after its initial designated agent retired and closed his law office in 1982 (see Eugene Di Lorenzo, Inc., 67 NY2d at 143; Brockington v Brookfield Dev. Corp., 308 AD2d 498 [2003]). Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Herman Cahn, J.), entered November 12, 2002, which denied petitioner’s application to vacate an arbitration award dismissing his claim, unanimously affirmed, without costs. Pursuant to rule 10314 (b) (2) (C) of the National Association of Securities Dealers Procedural Rules, it was within the arbitrator’s discretion to deny petitioner’s motion to preclude respondents’ answer for untimely service. Aside from the grounds specified in CPLR 7511 (b), courts may vacate an arbitration award only if it violates a strong public policy, is totally irrational, or exceeds a specifically enumerated limitation upon the arbitral authority (Matter of Board of Educ. of Dover Union Free School Dist. v Dover-Wingdale Teachers’ Assn., 61 NY2d 913 [1984]). None of those situations is presented herein. We have considered and rejected the parties’ remaining contentions for affirmative relief. Concur—Nardelli, J.P., Andrias, Rosenberger and Friedman, JJ.
Order, Family Court, New York County (Rhoda Cohen, J.), entered on or about May 1, 2003, denying respondent’s objections to the decision of the Hearing Examiner, which had calculated the parties’ child-support obligations, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The Hearing Examiner’s findings as to the income of each party were based largely on his assessment of their respective credibility. The Family Court correctly declined to disturb that determination, which was amply supported by the law and the facts, inasmuch as the Hearing Examiner was in the best position to make that evaluation (see Matter of Sledge v Sledge, 228 AD2d 310 [1996]). Nor has appellant articulated any persuasive reason to overturn the calculations of child support. The Hearing Examiner offered a detailed analysis based upon the parties’ combined incomes, the needs of the child, and the statutory factors in Family Ct Act § 413 (1) (f) and (1) (c) (3) (see Matter of Cassano v Cassano, 85 NY2d 649 [1995]). We have examined the parties’ remaining arguments for affirmative relief and find them unavailing. Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P., Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Lawrence Bernstein, J.), rendered October 13, 2000, convicting defendant, after a nonjury trial, of assault in the second degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree, and sentencing her to concurrent terms of three years and one year, respectively, unanimously affirmed. The court’s verdict, including its rejection of defendant’s justification defense, was based on legally sufficient evidence arid was not against the weight of the evidence. There is no basis for disturbing the court’s determinations concerning credibility. There was extensive evidence supporting the element of serious physical injury required for a second-degree assault conviction under Penal Law § 120.05 (4), including evidence that defendant stabbed the victim with a large kitchen knife in the abdomen, in the chest, and completely through her arm, causing significant blood loss and keloid scarring, requiring hospitalization (see People v Gordon, 257 AD2d 533 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 899 [1999]; see also People v Briggs, 285 AD2d 514 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 679 [2001]). Furthermore, the People disproved defendant’s justification defense beyond a reasonable doubt (see People v Goetz, 68 NY2d 96 [1986]). Concur— Mazzarelli, J.E, Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Richard Lowe, III, J.), entered June 9, 2003, which granted defendants’ motions for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and denied plaintiffs cross motion for summary judgment, unanimously affirmed, without costs. The failure to obtain a stay is fatal to plaintiffs claim that the sale pursuant to an order reversed by this Court (Matter of Sakow [633 Seafood Rest.], 297 AD2d 229 [2002]) should be rescinded (CPLR 5523; Aubrey Equities v Goldberg, 247 AD2d 253 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 802 [1998]). It is clear that plaintiffs interest is solely monetary, she has an adequate remedy at law, and restoration of the status quo ante is impractical (see Rudman v Cowles Communications, 30 NY2d 1, 13-14 [1972]). The purchaser’s awareness that an appeal was pending is irrelevant (Da Silva v Musso, 76 NY2d 436, 441-442 [1990]). We have considered plaintiff’s other contentions and find them unavailing. Concur—Mazzarelli, J.E, Saxe, Williams, Lerner and Marlow, JJ.
In an action, inter alia, for an accounting and to set aside an assignment of assets under Business Corporation Law § 720 (a), the plaintiff appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Segal, J.), dated June 21, 2002, as granted the motion of the defendant Alicia Metz for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against her and denied his motion for summary judgment. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The Supreme Court properly dismissed the complaint insofar as asserted against the defendant Alicia Metz. Metz, a former corporate officer of the defunct defendant Bechtoldt Corporation (hereinafter Bechtoldt), established through her testimony that the assignment of leases made by Bechtoldt to Metz and another person was for a legitimate business purpose, and was fair and reasonable to Bechtoldt (see Norlin Corp. v Rooney, Pace Inc., 744 F2d 255, 265 [1984]). The assignment was made by Bechtoldt, as the managing agent for certain cooperative apartment corporations, for the purpose of enabling Metz to commence summary proceedings, inter alia, for the nonpayment of rent by delinquent tenants of the respective cooperatives. Thus, Metz made a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law. In opposition, the plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact that the assignment was unlawful (see Business Corporation Law § 720 [a] [2]). The plaintiffs remaining contentions either are academic or without merit. Santucci, J.E, S. Miller, McGinity and Schmidt, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, for a judgment declaring that the County of Nassau’s assignment of correction officers to transport inmates violates Civil Service Law § 61 (2), the plaintiffs appeal from an order and judgment (one paper) of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Phelan, J.), dated May 6, 2002, which granted the motion of the defendant Sheriff Officers Association, Inc., in which the defendants County of Nassau and Nassau County Civil Service Commission joined, for summary judgment, denied their cross motion for summary judgment, and declared that the County of Nassau may assign correction officers to transport inmates and that such assignments do not violate Civil Service Law § 61 (2). Ordered that the order and judgment is affirmed, with one bill of costs to the respondents appearing separately and filing separate briefs. The defendants established their entitlement to summary judgment by submitting evidence sufficient to demonstrate that the County of Nassau did not violate Civil Service Law § 61 (2) (see Gavigan v McCoy, 37 NY2d 548 [1975]; Civil Serv. Empls. Assn. v New Hyde Park/Garden City Park Union Free School Dist., 230 AD2d 702 [1996]; Matter of Fitzpatrick v Ruffo, 110 AD2d 1032, 1034 [1985], affd 66 NY2d 647 [1985]; Glasbrenner v Bellacosa, 139 AD2d 491 [1988]; cf. Matter of MacRae v Dolce, 273 AD2d 389 [2000]; Woodward v Governor’s Off. of Empl. Relations, 279 AD2d 725 [2001]). In response, the plaintiffs failed to submit proof sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]). Consequently, the Supreme Court properly granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment (see Matter of Babor v Nassau County Civ. Serv. Commn., 297 AD2d 342 [2002]). The plaintiffs’ remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In related actions to recover damages for personal injuries, (1) the defendant Ruth Shulman, as administratrix of the estate of Marc Shulman, appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Bonina, J.), dated July 9, 2002, which denied her motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all counterclaims and cross claims insofar as asserted against her, and (2) the defendants Cartov Leasing, Inc., doing business as Dollar Rent-A-Car, and Citiwide Auto Leasing, Inc., doing business as Dollar Rent-A-Car, cross-appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of the same order as denied that branch of their cross motion which was for summary judgment dismissing all of the causes of action alleging negligence insofar as asserted against them. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed and cross-appealed from, without costs or disbursements. There are issues of fact requiring the denial of summary judgment. Santucci, J.P., S. Miller, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action for a judgment declaring that the plaintiff has acquired certain real property by adverse possession, the plaintiff appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Underwood, J.), dated June 4, 2002, as granted the defendants’ motion to impose a penalty upon her pursuant to CPLR 3126 for her failure to proceed with a videotaped deposition. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. It is well settled that the nature and degree of the penalty to be imposed pursuant to CPLR 3126 for failure to provide disclosure is a matter that rests within the sound discretion of the Supreme Court (see Lavi v Lavi, 256 AD2d 602 [1998]; Kubacka v Town of N. Hempstead, 240 AD2d 374 [1997]). Contrary to the plaintiff’s contentions, the record supports the Supreme Court’s determination that she willfully and contumaciously refused to proceed with a videotaped deposition, although proper notice had been served by the defendants, and counsel for both sides had agreed to the videotaping. Accordingly, the Supreme Court providently imposed the penalty (see Gamble v Anlynne, 199 AD2d 303 [1993]). The plaintiffs remaining contentions are without merit. Altman, J.E, S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to compel specific performance of an option to purchase certain real property, the defendant appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Schmidt, J.), dated June 18, 2002, which granted the plaintiffs motion for summary judgment and denied its cross motion, inter alia, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. A party moving for summary judgment must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, offering sufficient evidence to demonstrate the absence of a triable issue of fact (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]; Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557 [1980]). Here, the plaintiff demonstrated its entitlement to exercise the option to purchase the subject building under the sublease. The reinstatement of the plaintiffs corporate status nunc pro tunc retroactively validated the option (see St. James Constr. Corp. v Long, 253 AD2d 754, 755-756 [1998]; Lorisa Capital Corp. v Gallo, 119 AD2d 99, 111-113 [1986]). Therefore, the plaintiff made out a prima facie case for summary judgment (see Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851 [1985]; Zuckerman v City of New York , supra). In opposition, the defendant failed to demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact. The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.E, Crane, Mastro and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for negligent infliction of emotional distress, the plaintiff Andrea Biro appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Weiss, J.), entered July 23, 2002, as granted that branch of the defendant’s motion which was to dismiss the complaint insofar as asserted by her pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7) for failure to state a cause of action. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The plaintiffs commenced the instant action to recover consequential damages which allegedly resulted after the defendant improperly denied their applications for public assistance benefits. The plaintiffs alleged, inter alia, that they were evicted from their apartment as a result of the improper refusal by the defendant to pay their shelter allowance. In their complaint, they sought damages, inter alia, for negligent infliction of emotional distress. The Supreme Court properly granted that branch of the defendant’s motion which was to dismiss the complaint insofar as it relates to the appellant pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7) for failure to state a cause of action. Because the determination of whether an applicant is eligible for public assistance is discretionary rather than ministerial (see Matter of Frumoff v Wing, 239 AD2d 216, 217 [1997]) the defendant cannot be held liable for “the injurious consequences” of its incorrect denial of such benefits (Tango v Tulevech, 61 NY2d 34, 40 [1983]). Moreover, nothing in the law allows a plaintiff to “seek[ ] consequential damages for the alleged failure of the . . . defendant to carry out its mandate in providing benefits to [her]” (Lautner v Catarelli, 112 Misc 2d 157, 158 [1982]). Prudenti, PJ., Smith, Friedmann and H. Miller, JJ, concur.
In a matrimonial action in which the parties were divorced by a judgment entered December 11, 2000, the defendant former husband appeals from a postjudgment order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (McNulty, J.), dated July 29, 2002, which granted the motion of the plaintiff former wife to vacate an amended qualified domestic relations order dated February 14, 2002, and directed the entry of a money judgment in favor of the plaintiff and against him in the amount of $121,281, plus statutory interest as of November 30, 2000. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the stipulation of settlement between the parties clearly and unambiguously entitled the plaintiff to receive a lump sum payment in the sum of $121,281 (see Rainbow v Swisher, 72 NY2d 106 [1988]; Moran v Moran, 289 AD2d 544 [2001]; Cappelli v Cappelli, 286 AD2d 359 [2001]; Girardin v Girardin, 281 AD2d 457 [2001]). Moreover, the amended qualified domestic relations order (hereinafter the amended QDRO) improperly modified the clear terms of the stipulation (see Matter of Heinzman v Zeilinski, 127 AD2d 594 [1987]; Martino v Martino, 103 AD2d 842 [1984]). The defendant’s contention concerning the court’s failure to transfer the plaintiffs motion to vacate the amended QDRO to the justice who signed it is unpreserved for appellate review, as the defendant failed to raise such objection before the court (see Chaudhry v Lynest Assoc., 306 AD2d 307 [2003]; City of New York v Morfesis, 240 AD2d 190 [1997]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action for a judgment declaring that the defendant New York Central Mutual Fire Insurance Company is obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiffs in an underlying action entitled Springer v C.C.R. Realty of Dutchess, pending in the Supreme Court, Dutchess County, under Index No. 2348/99, the defendants Rosemary Springer and Joseph Springer appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Dutchess County (Dolan, J.), dated September 10, 2002, which granted the motion of the defendant New York Central Mutual Fire Insurance Company for summary judgment. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Dutchess County, for the entry of a judgment declaring that the defendant New York Central Mutual Fire Insurance Company is not obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiffs in the underlying action. Generally, the requirement that an insured provide notice of any occurrence to the insurance company within a reasonable time is considered a condition precedent to the insurer’s obligation to defend or indemnify the insured (see White v City of New York, 81 NY2d 955, 957 [1993]; Brooks v Zurich-Am. Ins. Group, 300 AD2d 176, 178 [2002]; Pierre v Providence Wash. Ins. Co., 286 AD2d 139, 143 [2001], affd 99 NY2d 222 [2002]; New York Cent. Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v Riley, 234 AD2d 279 [1996]). Absent a showing of legal justification, the failure to comply with the notice condition vitiates coverage (see Matter of Allcity Ins. Co., 78 NY2d 1054, 1055 [1991]; Matter of Interboro Mut. Indem. Ins. Co. v Napolitano, 232 AD2d 561, 562 [1996]; Greater N.Y. Mut. Ins. Co. v Farrauto, 136 AD2d 598, 599 [1988]). However, a failure to give notice may be excused when an insured has a reasonable belief of nonliability (see White v City of New York, supra at 957-958; Security Mut. Ins. Co. of N.Y. v Acker-Fitzsimons Corp., 31 NY2d 436 [1972]; United Talmudical Academy of Kiryas Joel v Cigna Prop. & Cas. Co., 253 AD2d 423, 424 [1998]). The burden is on the insured to show the reasonableness of its belief, and whether that belief is reasonable is ordinarily a question for the trier of fact (see United Talmudical Academy of Kiryas Joel v Cigna Prop. & Cas. Co., supra; Kreger Truck Renting Co. v American Guar. & Liab. Ins. Co., 213 AD2d 453 [1995]; Argentina v Otsego Mut. Fire Ins. Co., 207 AD2d 816 [1994], affd 86 NY2d 748 [1995]). However, the duty to give notice arises “when, from the information available relative to the accident, an insured could glean a reasonable possibility of the policy’s involvement” (Paramount Ins. Co. v Rosedale Gardens, 293 AD2d 235, 239-240 [2002]). Furthermore, knowledge of an occurrence obtained by an agent charged with the duty to report such matters is imputed to the principal (see White v City o f New York, supra at 958). In the present case, the evidence established that the plaintiffs should have realized that there was a reasonable possibility of the subject policy’s involvement once they learned about the accident and its surrounding circumstances. Having failed to offer a valid excuse as to why they waited approximately six months to inform their insurance agent of the occurrence (see Paramount Ins. Co. v Rosedale Gardens, supra; Ciaramella v State Farm Ins. Co., 273 AD2d 831, 832 [2000]), the Supreme Court properly granted the insurer’s motion for summary judgment (see Sayed v Macari, 296 AD2d 396 [2002]; Lukralle v Durso Supermarkets, 238 AD2d 318 [1997]). The appellants’ remaining contention is without merit. We note that since this is a declaratory judgment action, the matter must be remitted for the entry of a judgment declaring that the defendant New York Central Mutual Fire Insurance Company is not obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiffs in the underlying action (see Lanza v Wagner, 11 NY2d 317, 334 [1962], appeal dismissed 371 US 74 [1962], cert denied 371 US 901 [1962]). Prudenti, EJ., Smith, Friedmann and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Schneier, J.), entered March 14, 2003, which, upon a jury verdict and upon the denial of the her application pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a) to set aside the verdict as against the weight of the evidence, is in favor of the defendant and against her, dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law and the facts, the application is granted, the complaint is reinstated, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Kings County, for a new trial, with costs to abide the event. The plaintiff was injured when her automobile collided with the defendant’s vehicle which was making a left turn at the intersection of Bay Ridge Parkway and Ridge Boulevard in Brooklyn. At the time of the accident the plaintiff was proceeding through the intersection. She testified that she observed the defendant’s vehicle approaching from the opposite direction on Bay Ridge Parkway when she was near the intersection. A “second” passed between the time she saw the vehicle and when the defendant made a sudden left turn in front of her, striking her vehicle in the middle of the intersection. The defendant did not testify or call any witnesses. The jury returned a verdict finding the defendant was not negligent. The trial court subsequently denied the plaintiffs application to set aside the verdict as against the weight of the evidence. The trial court erred in denying the plaintiffs application to set aside the jury verdict as against the weight of the evidence (see DeAngelis v Kirschner, 171 AD2d 593, 594 [1991]). A jury verdict should be set aside if it could not have been reached by any fair interpretation of the evidence (see Nicastro v Park, 113 AD2d 129,134 [1985]; CPLR 4404 [a]). Based on this record we find the defendant violated Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1141 when he made a left turn directly into the path of the vehicle driven by the plaintiff (see Russo v Scibetti, 298 AD2d 514 [2002]; Agin v Rehfeldt, 284 AD2d 352, 353 [2001]). Such a violation constitutes negligence as a matter of law which could not be disregarded by the jury (see Batal v Associated Univs., 293 AD2d 558, 559 [2002]; Nunziata v Birchell, 238 AD2d 555, 556 [1997]). Accordingly, the jury could not have reached its verdict finding that the defendant was not negligent on any fair interpretation of the evidence (see Mathewson v Bender, 259 AD2d 673, 674 [1999]; Smalley v McCarthy, 254 AD2d 478 [1998]; Hyppolite v Guerrier, 232 AD2d 456, 457 [1996]). However, the plaintiff is not entitled to judgment in her favor as a matter of law, as there is an issue of fact as to whether she exercised reasonable care under the circumstances (see Brucaliere v Garlinghouse, 304 AD2d 782 [2003]; Batal v Associated Univs., supra; Perla v Wilson, 287 AD2d 606 [2001]). Ritter, J.P., Krausman, Schmidt and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action for a divorce and ancillary relief, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by her brief, from stated portions of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Spolzino, J.), dated January 15, 2002, which, after a nonjury trial and upon an order of the same court (Dillon, J.), dated October 24, 2001, inter alia, awarded her maintenance in the sum of only $15,000 per month, failed to direct the defendant to purchase life insurance for her benefit, awarded the defendant a credit against child support for the payment of college tuition, room, and board, and awarded the defendant a $45,144 credit against her distributive award for attorney’s fees. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the facts and as an exercise of discretion, by (1) adding a provision thereto directing that the defendant maintain a life insurance policy in the sum of $1,500,000, with the plaintiff as the beneficiary, to be maintained until the earlier of the plaintiffs remarriage, the plaintiffs death, or May 1, 2011, (2) deleting the 22nd decretal paragraph thereof, and (3) deleting from the 23rd decretal paragraph thereof the words “the exact sum of $228,740.34 representing plaintiffs distributive award of $273,884.34 less defendant’s credit for attorney’s fees of $45,144.00” and substituting therefor the words “the exact sum of $273,884.34 representing the plaintiffs distributive award”; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements, and the order dated October 24, 2001, is modified accordingly. The plaintiff was awarded maintenance in the sum of $15,000 per month for a period of nine years and seven months, to expire on May 1, 2011. Contrary to the plaintiffs contentions, we find, upon consideration of the relevant factors, including the parties’ preseparation standard of living, that the amount of maintenance awarded was a provident exercise of discretion (see Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [6]). In particular, we note that the plaintiff has Master’s degrees in education and social work and the distributive award included a substantial sum of cash (see Miness v Miness, 229 AD2d 520 [1996]). However, we agree with the plaintiff’s contention that the court should have directed the defendant to maintain life insurance in her favor to secure his maintenance obligation (see Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [8] [a]; Hartog v Hartog, 85 NY2d 36 [1995]; Wilson v Wilson, 203 AD2d 558 [1994]). In light of the fact that the defendant was paying for nearly 100% of the college expenses from his separate property, the court properly awarded him a credit against his child support obligations for those payments (see Jablonski v Jablonski, 275 AD2d 692 [2000]; Sheridan v Sperber, 269 AD2d 439 [2000]). Under the circumstances of this case, the court improvidently exercised its discretion in awarding the defendant a $45,144 credit against the plaintiffs distributive award for attorney’s fees. The court concluded that the plaintiff unnecessarily exacerbated the cost of this litigation by proceeding to trial since “the evidence adduced ... at trial merely bolstered the reasonableness of the [pre-trial] settlement proposal.” However, an award of an attorney’s fee is designed to redress the economic disparity between the spouses. It is not intended to address a party’s decision to proceed to trial rather than agree to a settlement (see O’Shea v O’Shea, 93 NY2d 187 [1999]). Santucci, J.P., S. Miller, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action for a divorce and ancillary relief, the defendant appeals from (1) an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Shapiro, J.), dated July 25, 2002, which, inter alia, granted the plaintiffs motion for support arrears and denied his cross motion for a downward modification of maintenance, and (2) an order of the same court dated December 10, 2002, which denied his motion for leave to reargue the motion and the cross motion. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated December 10, 2002, is dismissed, as no appeal lies from an order denying reargument; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated July 25, 2002, is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the plaintiff. Pursuant to Domestic Relations Law § 236 (B) (9) (b), the Supreme Court may modify any prior order or judgment with respect to maintenance. The party seeking the modification has the burden of establishing the existence of a “substantial change in circumstances” warranting the modification (Klapper v Klapper, 204 AD2d 518 [1994]; Rosen v Rosen, 193 AD2d 661 [1993]). Here, the defendant failed to meet that burden. His assertions concerning his current financial circumstances were not only unsubstantiated, but also vague and conclusory (see Rosen v Rosen, supra; Praeger v Praeger, 162 AD2d 671 [1990]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.R, S. Miller, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for breach of contract and negligence, the defendant appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Costello, J.), entered September 26, 2002, which denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the complaint is dismissed. The plaintiff was the insured on an annuity policy issued by the defendant, National Life Insurance Company, which had been obtained by an insurance broker, Anthony Schepis, a longtime friend of the plaintiff. When Schepis requested a loan from the plaintiff, the plaintiff agreed to “cash out” his annuity policy with the defendant, valued at over $70,000, and Schepis agreed to repay the loan within 30 days. The plaintiff executed a request for a surrender of the contract in April 1997, and a check made out to the plaintiff was forwarded to the defendant’s general agent for delivery to Schepis, who was, in turn, to deliver the check to the plaintiff. Schepis, however, apparently forged the plaintiffs signature on the check, deposited it into his firm’s account on May 2, 1997, and failed to repay the money despite repeated assurances that he would. Thereafter, the plaintiff instituted legal action against Schepis, who ultimately filed for bankruptcy. It was not until approximately eight months after the check was issued by the defendant, and two months after the plaintiff informed a representative of the defendant that the transaction has worked out well that the plaintiff first informed the defendant that Schepis had wrongfully converted the funds. The plaintiff then instituted this action, alleging that the defendant’s delivery of the surrender check directly to Schepis, who, the plaintiff maintained, acted as the defendant’s agent, constituted both a breach of the insurance contract and a negligent act by the defendant. The Supreme Court denied the defendant’s motion for summary judgment, finding that the defendant failed to satisfy its burden. We disagree, and accordingly, reverse. Schepis, the insurance “broker” (see Insurance Law § 2101 [c]), acted as the plaintiff’s agent in obtaining the insurance policy from the defendant at the outset, in submitting the surrender to the defendant on behalf of the plaintiff, and in receiving the check for delivery to the plaintiff (see American Motorists Ins. Co. v Salvatore, 102 AD2d 342 [1984]; Jet Setting Serv. Corp. v Toomey, 91 AD2d 431 [1983]). Accordingly, the plaintiff is bound by the action of his agent, Schepis, in securing the surrender check, forging the plaintiffs signature on the check, and converting the funds (see Hutzler v Hertz Corp., 39 NY2d 209 [1976]; Guardian Life Ins. Co. of Am. v Chemical Bank, 47 AD2d 608 [1975]). Moreover, by assuring a representative of the defendant in November 1997 that the surrender transaction had worked out well, and failing to register any complaint with the defendant until approximately eight months after the check had been issued, the plaintiff ratified the actions of his agent, and accordingly, was bound by them (see Matter of Silicone Breast Implant Litig. [Clark v Bristol-Myers Squibb & Co.], 306 AD2d 82 [2003]; Holm v C.M.P. Sheet Metal, 89 AD2d 229 [1982]). The defendant demonstrated its entitlement to judgment dismissing the claims for breach of contract and negligence as a matter of law, and the plaintiff failed to demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact (see Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557 [1980]). Altman, J.E, Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Warshawsky, J.), entered August 23, 2002, which, upon a jury verdict in favor of the defendants Jacob Henry Hoeffner and Patricia Hoeffner and against her and upon the denial of her motion pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a) to set aside the verdict as against the weight of the evidence and for a new trial, dismissed the complaint insofar as asserted against those defendants. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the facts, the motion is granted, the complaint is reinstated insofar as asserted against the defendants Jacob Henry Hoeffner and Patricia Hoeffner, and a new trial is granted on the issues of liability and damages, with costs to abide the event. A jury verdict is entitled to great deference and should only be set aside as against the weight of the evidence when it could not have been reached on any fair interpretation of the evidence (see Bendersky v M & O Enters. Corp., 299 AD2d 434 [2002]). Proof of a defendant’s negligence does not compel a finding that such negligence was a proximate cause of the accident (see Stanton v Gasport View Dairy Farm, 244 AD2d 893 [1997]), and where a verdict can be reconciled with a reasonable view of the evidence the prevailing party is entitled to the presumption that the jury adopted that reasonable view (see Miglino v Supermarkets Gen. Corp., 243 AD2d 451 [1997]). However, where a jury verdict with respect to negligence and proximate cause is irreconcilably inconsistent, because the only reasonable view of the evidence is that a defendant’s negligence was the proximate cause of the plaintiffs injuries, then such verdict must be set aside as against the weight of the evidence (see Lora v City of New York, 305 AD2d 171 [2003]; Bennett v City of New York, 303 AD2d 614 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 552 [2003]). In the instant case, the evidence adduced by the plaintiff established that an employee of the defendants Jacob Henry Hoeffner and Patricia Hoeffner (hereinafter the defendants) placed a plastic milk crate in a doorway to their ice cream shop to prop the door open. The jury found that the defendants were negligent, but that their negligence was not a proximate cause of the accident. The only evidence of causation was provided by the plaintiff; she fell while exiting the store when her foot caught on the milk crate. Under these circumstances, the verdict of no proximate cause was inconsistent and unsupported by a fair interpretation of the evidence (see Lora v City of New York, supra; Bennett v City of New York, supra; Bendersky v M & O Enters. Corp., supra; Soto v New York City Tr. Auth., 295 AD2d 419 [2002]; Brown v City of New York, 275 AD2d 726 [2000]; Stanton v Gasport View Dairy Farm, supra). Thus, the plaintiffs motion pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a) to set aside the verdict and for a new trial should have been granted (see Bennett v City of New York, supra). Santucci, J.P, S. Miller, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ, concur.
In an action to recover damages for wrongful death, etc., the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Bruno, J), dated December 11, 2002, which granted the defendants leave to file a late motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, and granted the motion. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the facts and as a matter of discretion, with costs, the motion is denied, and the complaint is reinstated. CPLR 3212 (a) requires that a motion for summary judgment be made within 120 days after the filing of a note of issue, except with leave of court on good cause shown. Here, the defendants filed a motion for summary judgment 16 months after the deadline, and without any explanation for the delay. Under these circumstances, the Supreme Court improvidently exercised its discretion in entertaining the motion (see Hilton v City of New Rochelle, 298 AD2d 360 [2002]; Wagner v City of New York, 271 AD2d 439 [2000]). In light of the foregoing, we need not reach the parties’ remaining contentions. Santucci, J.P., Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for medical malpractice, the defendants Joyce E. Honorof and David Sacknoff appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Gerard, J.), dated October 17, 2001, which denied their motion for summary judgment dismissing the amended complaint insofar as asserted against them and granted the plaintiffs’ cross motion for leave to amend the original complaint nunc pro tunc to add them as parties to the action. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the cross motion is denied, and the amended complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the appellants. The plaintiff Troy Evans (hereinafter the plaintiff) underwent back surgery at the defendant Huntington Hospital on February 21, 1997. The surgery was performed by the defendants Dr. Jean Jacques Abitbol and Dr. Harry Mayer. Two days later, on February 23, 1997, the plaintiff had complications relating to his heart, and was attended to in the hospital by the defendants Dr. Joyce Honorof and Dr. David Sacknoff. On February 25, 1997, the plaintiff was transferred to University Hospital at Stony Brook, and he received no further treatment from Dr. Honorof or Dr. Sacknoff. Thus, the 2x/2-year statute of limitations for medical malpractice actions against Dr. Honorof and Dr. Sacknoff expired on August 25, 1999. The plaintiffs commenced the instant medical malpractice action on August 13, 1999, by the filing of a summons and complaint which named only Huntington Hospital and Dr. Abitbol as defendants. On October 28, 1999, the plaintiffs filed and served an amended complaint adding Dr. Mayer, Dr. Honorof, and Dr. Sacknoff as new defendants. Dr. Honorof and Dr. Sacknoff thereafter moved for summary judgment dismissing the amended complaint insofar as asserted against them on the ground, inter alia, that the statute of limitations had expired. The plaintiffs cross-moved for leave to amend the original complaint nunc pro tunc. In the order appealed from, the Supreme Court granted the plaintiffs’ cross motion and denied the appellants’ motion, holding that the amended complaint related back to the original complaint for statute of limitations purposes. We disagree. “As codified in New York’s Civil Practice Law and Rules, what is commonly referred to as the relation back doctrine allows a claim asserted against a defendant in an amended filing to relate back to claims previously asserted against a codefendant for Statute of Limitations purposes where the two defendants are ‘united in interest’ ” (Buran v Coupal, 87 NY2d 173, 177 [1995]). Two defendants may be held to be united in interest when one defendant can be- held vicariously liable for the conduct of the other (see Mondello v New York Blood Ctr.— Greater N.Y. Blood Program, 80 NY2d 219, 226 [1992]; Desiderio v Rubin, 234 AD2d 581 [1996]). Generally, a hospital may not be held vicariously liable for the malpractice of a private attending physician who is not its employee (see Pearce v Klein, 293 AD2d 593 [2002]; Johanessen v Singh, 259 AD2d 670 [1999]). In the instant case, Dr. Honorof and Dr. Sacknoff established that they were private physicians, and not employees of the defendant hospital; the plaintiffs failed to sustain their burden of showing that they fell within any exception to the above rule (see Austin v Interfaith Med. Ctr., 264 AD2d 702 [1999]; Mduba v Benedictine Hosp., 52 AD2d 450 [1976]). Since Dr. Honorof and Dr. Sacknoff are not united in interest with Huntington Hospital, the relation back doctrine does not apply, and the instant action is untimely as against them. Santucci, J.R, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for medical malpractice, the plaintiffs appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (R. Goldberg, J.), dated July 8, 2002, as, upon a jury verdict finding the defendant St. Mary’s Hospital 75% at fault and the defendant Rajesh Bajaj, also known as Randahir Bajaj, 25% at fault, and finding that the plaintiffs sustained damages in the principal sum of $114,879,993, ($30,000,000 for past pain and suffering, $383,661 for past lost earnings, $2,000,000 for past medical expenses, $70,000,000 for future pain and suffering, $957,696 for future lost earnings, and $11,538,636 for future medical expenses), granted that branch of the defendants’ motion pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a) which was to set aside the verdict on the issue of damages as against the weight of the evidence, to the extent of directing a new trial on the issue of damages unless the plaintiffs stipulated to reduce the verdict as to past pain and suffering from $30,000,000 to $800,000, as to future pain and suffering from $100,000,000 to $1,000,000, as to past medical expenses from $2,000,000 to $1,391,703, and as to future medical expenses from $11,528,636 to $2,500,000, resulting in a cumulative award of $7,033,060, and (2) the defendants cross-appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of the same order as denied that branch of their motion which was to set aside the jury verdict in its entirety. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. Contrary to the defendants’ contention, the verdict on the issue of liability was not against the weight of the evidence. A jury verdict should not be set aside as against the weight of the evidence “unless ‘the jury could not have reached the verdict on any fair interpretation of the evidence’ ” (Nicastro v Park, 113 AD2d 129, 134 [1985], quoting Delgado v Board of Educ., 65 AD2d 547 [1978], affd 48 NY2d 643 [1979]). In reviewing the record to ascertain whether the verdict was based on a fair interpretation of the evidence, great deference must be given to the fact-finding function of the jury, as it was in the foremost position to assess witness credibility (see Schray v Amerada Hess Corp., 297 AD2d 339 [2002]). Under the circumstances of this case, the jury could have concluded, based on a fair interpretation of the evidence, that the defendants were negligent and deviated from good and accepted medical practice, and that their negligence and deviation from good and accepted medical practice was the proximate cause of the plaintiff Michelle McCord’s permanent brain injury. Furthermore, the damage awards for past and future pain and suffering and future medical expenses, as reduced by the Supreme Court, do not deviate materially from what would be reasonable compensation (see Weldon v Beal, 272 AD2d 321, 322 [2000]; Baumgarten v Slavin, 255 AD2d 538, 540 [1998]; DiMarco v New York City Health & Hosps. Corp., 247 AD2d 574, 576 [1998]). The parties’ remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.P., Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Jonas, J.), entered March 21, 2003, as denied those branches of the motion of the defendants American Honda Motor Company, Inc., and Liberty Chevrolet, Inc., doing business as Bronx Honda, which were for summary judgment dismissing the causes of action to recover damages based on strict products liability, negligent manufacture, and negligence. Ordered that the appeals by the defendants Honda North America, Inc., and Honda Motor Co., Ltd., are dismissed, without costs or disbursements, as those defendants are not aggrieved by the order appealed from (see CPLR 5511); and it is further, Ordered that the order is modified by deleting the provision thereof denying that branch of the motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action to recover damages based upon negligent manufacture and substituting therefor a provision granting that branch of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as reviewed, without costs or disbursements. On February 19, 1994, the plaintiff’s decedent died in an automobile fire. The decedent was apparently passed out inside the idling vehicle, a 1987 Honda Civic CRX, when a fire started in the engine compartment and engulfed the car. The defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc., was a distributor of Honda vehicles throughout the country, and the defendant Liberty Chevrolet, Inc., doing business as Bronx Honda, was an authorized Honda dealer (hereinafter collectively the defendants). The Supreme Court correctly determined that the plaintiffs expert had the requisite experience to render an opinion as to the design of the vehicle’s engine compartment and as to the origin of the fire (see Caprara v Chrysler Corp., 52 NY2d 114 [1981]; Matott v Ward, 48 NY2d 455 [1979]). Although the defendants made a prima facie showing that the subject vehicle was not defective (see generally Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]), the Supreme Court correctly determined that the affidavit of the plaintiffs expert raised triable issues of fact with respect to a design defect (see Denny v Ford Motor Co., 87 NY2d 248 [1995]; Voss v Black & Decker Mfg. Co., 59 NY2d 102 [1983]; see generally Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557 [1980]). However, the plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact with respect to negligent manufacture. In opposition to the defendants’ motion, the plaintiff submitted no evidence that the vehicle had not performed as intended due to a flaw in the fabrication process. Accordingly, the Supreme Court should have granted that branch of the defendants’ motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action to recover damages based upon negligent manufacture. The defendants’ remaining contentions are without merit. Prudenti, EJ., Smith, Friedmann and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff Debra Hoffer appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Martin, J.), dated December 16, 2002, as granted that branch of the defendants’ motion which was to dismiss the complaint insofar as asserted by her on the ground that she did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. We agree with the Supreme Court that the plaintiff Debra Hoffer failed to come forward with sufficient admissible evidence to rebut the defendants’ initial showing that she did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Thus, summary judgment was properly granted to the defendants dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted by her (see Licari v Elliott, 57 NY2d 230 [1982]; Amato v Psaltakis, 279 AD2d 439 [2001]). Florio, J.E, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a shareholder’s derivative action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of fiduciary duty, the plaintiff, Samuel J. Klein, suing as director of Cellular Design Corp., appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Klein, J.), dated March 22, 2002, which denied his motion, among other things, for partial summary judgment. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The Supreme Court properly denied the plaintiffs motion. It is well settled that successive motions for summary judgment should not be made “in the guise of motions to renew where the new material could have been submitted with the original motion for summary judgment” (Laxrand Constr. Corp. v R.S.C.A. Realty Corp., 135 AD2d 685, 686 [1987] [internal quotation marks omitted]; see Rose v La Joux, 93 AD2d 817, 818 [1983]). In any event, there are triable issues of fact which preclude the granting of summary judgment (see Laxrand Constr. Corp. v R.S.C.A. Realty Corp., supra; Baron v Charles Azzue, Inc., 240 AD2d 447, 449 [1997]). Santucci, J.E, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Floyd, J.), entered August 21, 2002, which, upon the granting of the motion of the defendants Dubicki, Inc., and Dubicki Auto Body, Inc., for summary judgment, dismissed the complaint insofar as asserted against them. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. The movants met their burden of establishing their prima facie entitlement to judgment as a matter of law based upon their deposition testimony that they performed no work on the components of a car engine which caught fire, injuring the plaintiff Richard Krolak (see Lanaro v Morris Ford Mercury, 256 AD2d 913 [1998]; Pollock v Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., 222 AD2d 766, 768 [1995]; Lopez v Mackenzie Elec. Contrs., 203 AD2d 262 [1994]). The plaintiffs, in response, failed to satisfy their burden in opposition by coming forward with a triable issue of fact as to whether the movants negligently performed any work on the engine that proximately caused the fire which occurred 19 months after the movants performed body work on the car (cf. Gallo v Bay Ridge Lincoln Mercury, 262 AD2d 450, 451 [1999]). The expert’s opinion to the contrary was based on speculation, and thus, was not probative of the issue (see Nichols v Cummins Engine Co., 273 AD2d 909 [2000]; Williams v Healy Intl. Corp., 240 AD2d 403, 404 [1997]; Pollock v Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., supra). Thus, the Supreme Court properly granted the motion for summary judgment. Smith, J.E, Crane, Mastro and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendant TJX Companies, Inc., doing business as Marshalls appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Baisley, J.), dated October 28, 2002, as denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the appellant, and the action against the remaining defendant is severed. The injured plaintiff was shopping at a store owned by the defendant TJX Companies, Inc., doing business as Marshalls (hereinafter TJX), when a child ran out from a clothing rack and jumped on her, causing her to fall to the ground and sustain injuries. The plaintiffs commenced this action against, among others, TJX, alleging that it owed a duty to the injured plaintiff to supervise and control the child to prevent him from harming the plaintiff. The Supreme Court denied the motion of TJX for summary judgment, finding an issue of fact as to whether its employees acted reasonably under the circumstances. We reverse. “While landowners in general have a duty to act in a reasonable manner to prevent harm to those on their property, an owner’s duty to control the conduct of persons on its premises arises only when it has ‘the opportunity to control such persons and [is] reasonably aware of the need for such control’ .... Thus, the owner of a public establishment has no duty to protect patrons against unforeseeable and unexpected assaults . . . nor is it an insurer of its patrons’ safety” (Cutrone v Monarch Holding Corp., 299 AD2d 388, 389 [2002], quoting D’Amico v Christie, 71 NY2d 76, 85 [1987]). TJX met its initial burden of establishing prima facie entitlement to judgment as a matter of law by submitting proof in admissible form demonstrating that it did not have a duty to protect the plaintiff against such an unexpected incident as occurred here (see Moss v New York Tel. Co., 196 AD2d 492 [1993]). In response, the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact (see Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557 [1980]). TJX also established that it did not assume the duty to control or supervise the child from his mother, who was present in the store (see Appell v Mandel, 296 AD2d 514 [2002]). Under these circumstances, the motion of TJX for summary judgment should have been granted. Smith, J.P., Schmidt, Crane and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants J.M. Dennis Construction, Inc., and New York Institute of Technology, Inc., appeal, as limited by their notice of appeal and brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Alpert, J.), dated July 31, 2002, as denied that branch of their motion for summary judgment which was to dismiss the third cause of action insofar as asserted against the defendant J.M. Dennis Construction, Inc., and as granted that branch of the motion for summary judgment of the defendant Best Demolition & Cleaning which was to dismiss the first and second cross claims of the defendant J.M. Dennis Construction, Inc., insofar as asserted against it, and the defendant Best Demolition & Cleaning separately appeals from so much of the same order as denied that branch of its motion for summary judgment which was to dismiss the third cross claim of the defendant J.M. Dennis Construction, Inc., insofar as asserted against it. Ordered that the appeal by the defendant New York Institute of Technology, Inc., is dismissed, as it is not aggrieved by the portion of the order appealed from (see CPLR 5511); and it is further, Ordered that the order is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the plaintiff. Under the circumstances of this case, the Supreme Court properly determined the branches of parties’ respective motions for summary judgment in question. Altman, J.E, Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendant appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Franco, J.), entered December 24, 2002, as denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the complaint is dismissed. The plaintiff allegedly sustained personal injuries while riding a water slide at the defendant’s water park. The defendant moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint based upon the doctrine of assumption of risk. The Supreme Court denied the motion, finding that there was a triable issue of fact. A plaintiff is barred from recovery for injuries which occur during voluntary sporting or recreational activities if it is determined that he or she assumed the risk as a matter of law (see Morgan v State of New York, 90 NY2d 471 [1997]; Milea v Our Lady of Miracles R.C. Church, 290 AD2d 424 [2002]; Loewenthal v Catskill Funland, 237 AD2d 262 [1997]). A voluntary participant in a sporting or recreational activity consents to those commonly-appreciated risks which are inherent in and arise out of the nature of such activity generally, and which flow from the participation (see Morgan v State of New York, supra at 484; Milea v Our Lady of Miracles R.C. Church, supra). The defendant sustained its burden of proving its prima facie entitlement to judgment as a matter of law (see generally Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]) by presenting evidence that the plaintiff understood and voluntarily assumed the risks inherent in the activity at issue (see Morgan v State of New York, supra; Milea v Our Lady of Miracles R.C. Church, supra; Loewenthal v Catskill Funland, supra). Contrary to the plaintiffs contention, she did not establish the existence of a dangerous condition over and above the risk inherent in the subject activity (see Loewenthal v Catskill Funland, supra). Further, the affidavit submitted by the plaintiffs engineering expert did not raise a triable issue of fact, since the expert’s conclusions were speculative and not based upon personal knowledge or evidence in the record (see Kracker v Spartan Chem. Co., 183 AD2d 810, 812 [1992]). In light of our determination, the parties’ remaining contentions are academic. Santucci, J.P., Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, for a judgment declaring that the Zoning Law of the Town of Ramapo is unconstitutional as applied to the plaintiffs property and to recover damages based on the approval by the Town of Ramapo of a certain subdivision and related actions which allegedly constituted an inverse condemnation of the property, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Rockland County (O’Rourke, J.), dated December 23, 2002, which denied his motion for summary judgment and granted the defendant’s cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground, among other things, that it was time-barred. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Rockland County, for the entry of a judgment, inter alia, declaring that the Zoning Law of the Town of Ramapo is constitutional as applied to the plaintiffs property, and that the challenged actions taken by the Town of Ramapo did not constitute an inverse condemnation of the property. The plaintiff, Leon Linzenberg, sought, inter alia, a judgment declaring that the Zoning Law of the Town of Ramapo is unconstitutional as applied to his property and that the Town’s approval of a subdivision, which allegedly locked in his substandard lot, coupled with the subsequent denial of his two requests for area variances, constituted an inverse condemnation of his property. Since the gravamen of the complaint was to recover damages for inverse condemnation, the three-year statute of limitations set forth in CPLR 214 (4) applies (see CPLR 214 [4]; Gache v Town of Harrison, 813 F Supp 1037, 1047 [1993]; cf. Sarnelli v City of New York, 256 AD2d 399, 401 [1998]; Sassone v Town of Queensbury, 157 AD2d 891, 893 [1990]). Contrary to the Supreme Court’s determination, Linzenberg’s inverse condemnation claim, if any, did not accrue until the Town’s Zoning Board reached a final decision regarding his application for area variances. Therefore, the Supreme Court erred in determining that the complaint was time-barred. Nevertheless, the cross motion to dismiss the complaint should have been granted on other grounds. Linzenberg never had an absolute right to build a single-family home on the premises without a variance (see Matter of Gazza v New York State Dept. of Envtl. Conservation, 89 NY2d 603, 615-616 [1997], cert denied 522 US 813 [1997]). Even if Linzenberg had a cognizable property right, however, his conclusory allegations that the property could not yield an economically reasonable return as it was presently zoned were insufficient to establish an unconstitutional taking (see Spears v Berle, 48 NY2d 254, 263-264 [1979]; Raskin v Town of Islip, 185 AD2d 923, 924 [1992]; Matter of Kransteuber v Scheyer, 176 AD2d 724, 726-727 [1991], affd 80 NY2d 783 [1992]; Matter of Loujean Props. v Town Bd. of Town of Oyster Bay, 160 AD2d 797 [1990]). Finally, since this was a declaratory judgment action, the matter must be remitted for the entry of a judgment, inter alia, declaring that the Zoning Law was constitutional as applied to Linzenberg’s property and the challenged actions taken by the Town did not constitute an inverse condemnation of the property (see Lanza v Wagner, 11 NY2d 317, 334 [1962], appeal dismissed 371 US 74 [1962], cert denied 371 US 901 [1962]). Smith, J.E, Crane, Mastro and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a matrimonial action in which the parties were divorced by judgment entered December 6, 2001, the defendant former husband appeals, as limited by his notice of appeal and brief, from stated portions of an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Maraño, J.), dated August 6, 2002, which, inter alia, granted those branches of the motion of the plaintiff former wife which were for leave to enter money judgments against him for accrued arrears due pursuant to the judgment of divorce and for $60,000 owed to the custodial account of the parties’ daughter, and for an award of counsel fees, and denied, without a hearing, that branch of his cross motion which was to terminate child support based upon the conduct of the parties’ daughter. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, by deleting the provision thereof granting that branch of the plaintiff s motion which was for an award of counsel fees and substituting therefor a provision denying that branch of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. There is no merit to the defendant’s contention that the Supreme Court improperly denied that branch of his cross motion which was to terminate his child support obligation for the parties’ daughter. Domestic Relations Law § 241 provides a basis for the prospective suspension of child support where the custodial parent receiving such support interferes with the visitation rights of the noncustodial parent (see Doyle v Doyle, 198 AD2d 256 [1993]). Here, however, the defendant did not allege that the plaintiff interfered with his visitation rights, and there is no evidence in the record to support any such claim. Nor is there any merit to the defendant’s contention that he provided prima facie evidence warranting a hearing on his claim of constructive emancipation. The judgment of divorce states that “the plaintiff and defendant are directed to each pay $30,000 for the $60,000 borrowed from the daughter’s [custodial] account.” Those payments were to be made out of a lump-sum payment of $130,000 owed to the defendant by a third party. In opposition to that branch of the plaintiff’s motion which was for leave to enter a money judgment for the $60,000 payable to the daughter’s custodial account, the defendant claimed that the lump sum received from the third party was “disbursed from my checking account for regular business and personal expenses.” He failed to raise an issue of whether he in fact received the $130,000 owed to him by the third party. Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly granted leave to enter judgment against him for $60,000. However, the Supreme Court erred in awarding counsel fees to the plaintiff, as there is no documentation of the value of the services performed by her attorney nor was any hearing conducted on the value of the services performed (see Reynolds v Reynolds, 300 AD2d 645, 646 [2002]; Sloam v Sloam, 185 AD2d 808, 810 [1992]). The defendant’s remaining contentions either are without merit or not properly before this Court. Goldstein, J.E, Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a matrimonial action in which the parties were divorced by judgment entered December 6, 2001, the defendant former husband appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Maraño, J.), dated January 8, 2003, as (1) granted those branches of the motion of the plaintiff former wife which were for (a) leave to reargue those branches of a prior motion which were denied by an order of the same court dated August 6, 2002, and, upon reargument, granted her leave to enter an additional money judgment against the defendant in the principal sum of $35,000, (b) leave to enter money judgments for additional arrears of child support and for her distributive award due pursuant to the judgment of divorce, and (c) an award of counsel fees in the sum of $2,500, and (2) denied his cross motion, inter alia, for leave to renew and reargue his prior cross motion which was determined by the order dated August 6, 2002. Ordered that so much of the appeal from so much of the order as denied that branch of the appellant’s cross motion which was for leave to reargue is dismissed, without costs or disbursements, on the ground that no appeal lies from the denial of re-argument; and it is further, Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, by deleting the provision thereof granting that branch of the motion which was for an award of counsel fees and substituting therefor a provision denying that branch of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as reviewed, without costs or disbursements. In opposition to the plaintiff’s motion for leave to reargue that branch of a prior motion which was for leave to enter a money judgment for $35,000 representing her share of $130,000 owed to the defendant by a third party, the defendant alleged for the first time that he received only $42,000 of the $130,000 and demanded a hearing so he could establish that he never received the full $130,000. This information could have and should have been brought to the attention of the court in opposition to the plaintiff’s original motion (see Scharkopf v Cadbury Schweppes, 246 AD2d 640 [1998]) and was in fact contrary to his prior position that he had “disbursed” the $130,000. In view of the foregoing, the Supreme Court properly granted the plaintiff leave to enter a money judgment for $35,000 without a hearing. However, the Supreme Court erred in awarding counsel fees to the plaintiff, as there was no documentation of the value of the services performed nor was any hearing conducted on the value of the services performed (see Reynolds v Reynolds, 300 AD2d 645, 646 [2002]; Sloam v Sloam, 185 AD2d 808, 810 [1992]). The defendant’s remaining contentions either are without merit or are not properly before this Court. Goldstein, J.E, Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to rescind a contract for the sale of real property, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Seidell, J.), dated October 3, 2002, which denied his motion for summary judgment on the complaint and to dismiss the counterclaim. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs, and, upon searching the record, the defendants are awarded summary judgment dismissing the complaint, the defendant Homes by the Timbers, Inc., is awarded summary judgment on the issue of liability on its counterclaim, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, for further proceedings on the counterclaim. In March 2002 the plaintiff entered into a contract with the defendant Homes by the Timbers, Inc. (hereinafter the seller), to purchase two undeveloped parcels of real property within the Town of Brookhaven. The contract, which identified the two parcels by lot numbers on a map, recited that the lots were situated within an unincorporated area known as Mt. Sinai. Record searches conducted by the plaintiff after the parties entered into the contract, however, allegedly revealed that the lots were within Fort Jefferson Station. After demands for the return of his down payment were rejected, the plaintiff commenced this action against the seller and the escrow agent to rescind the contract and for the return of the down payment. The sole theory of recovery advanced in the complaint was that the seller misrepresented the identity of the location of the parcels. The defendants’ answer, inter alia, denied the allegations of misrepresentation, and counterclaimed for specific performance or damages. The Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs motion for summary judgment on the complaint and to dismiss the defendants’ counterclaim, resulting in this appeal. The Supreme Court correctly denied the plaintiffs motion. Even assuming that the description of the location of the parcels was erroneous, the plaintiff may not rescind the contract on ground of misrepresentation, as the true situs of the property was not a matter peculiarly within the seller’s knowledge, and could easily have been, and, in fact, belatedly was, ascertained by the plaintiff through the exercise of reasonable diligence (see Marinis v Scherr; 306 AD2d 448 [2003]; Kay v Pollak, 305 AD2d 637 [2003]; O’Dell v Ginsberg, 253 AD2d 544 [1998]; Ryzuk v Timber Ridge Homes at Woods, 179 AD2d 751 [1992]). Although the seller did not cross-move for summary judgment, this Court has the authority to search the record and award summary judgment to a nonmoving party with respect to an issue that was the subject of the motion before the Supreme Court (see CPLR 3212 [b]; Dunham v Hilco Constr. Co., 89 NY2d 425, 429 [1996]; Selter v MCM Distribs., 299 AD2d 332 [2002]). Here, since the sole basis for rescinding the contract asserted by the plaintiff was shown to be without merit, we award summary judgment dismissing the complaint and on the issue of liability on the seller’s counterclaim, and remit to the Supreme Court for further proceedings on the counterclaim. Ritter, J.P., S. Miller, Goldstein and Townes, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of contract, the defendants separately appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Rudolph, J.), entered January 24, 2003, which granted the plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction enjoining them from soliciting or accepting certain clients of the plaintiff. By decision and order on motion dated February 13, 2003, this Court stayed enforcement of the order pending hearing and determination of the appeal. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law and as an exercise of discretion, with one bill of costs, and the motion is denied. It is well established that a party is entitled to a preliminary injunction only where it demonstrates (1) a probability of success on the merits, (2) danger of irreparable harm in the absence of an injunction, and (3) a balance of the equities in its favor (see W.T. Grant Co. v Srogi, 52 NY2d 496, 517 [1981]). The plaintiff failed to meet this burden. Although noncompetition clauses will be enforced where necessary to protect, inter alia, an employer’s confidential customer information and the goodwill of a customer generated and maintained at the employer’s expense (see IVI Envtl. v McGovern, 269 AD2d 497 [2000]; cf. BDO Seidman v Hirshberg, 93 NY2d 382, 392 [1999]), in the instant case there are issues of fact regarding whether the defendants made use of such information, and whether the employee developed the goodwill without any support from his employer. While issues of fact alone will not justify denial of a motion for a preliminary injunction (see CPLR 6312 [c]), these issues subvert the plaintiff’s likelihood of success on the merits in this case to such a degree that it cannot be said that the plaintiff established a clear right to relief (see Peterson v Corbin, 275 AD2d 35, 37 [2000]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court erred in granting the preliminary injunction (see Peterson v Corbin, supra). Ritter, J.P., Krausman, Schmidt and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendant Juan Gonzalez appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Vaughan, J.), dated October 9, 2002, as denied his motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against him on the ground that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the appellant, and the action against the remaining defendant is severed. In support of his motion for summary judgment, the defendant Juan Gonzalez established a prima facie case that the plaintiffs injuries were not serious (see Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955, 956-957 [1992]). In opposition, the plaintiffs medical expert failed to specify the objective tests he performed in arriving at his conclusions concerning alleged restrictions in the plaintiffs range of motion (see Espinal v Galicia, 290 AD2d 528 [2002]; Greggs v Kurlan, 290 AD2d 533 [2002]). Accordingly, the plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact (see CPLR 3212 [b]). Florio, J.E, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages to property, the defendant Palisades Eklecco Corp. appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Rockland County (Bergerman, J.), dated March 19, 2003, which denied its motion to vacate a judgment of the same court dated September 20, 2002, entered upon its failure to appear or answer. Ordered that the order is reversed, without costs or disbursements, the motion is granted, the judgment is vacated, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Rockland County, for a new inquest on the issue of damages. The appellant failed to rebut the plaintiffs proof that it received actual notice of the summons in time to defend (see CPLR 317; Eugene Di Lorenzo, Inc. v Dutton Lbr. Co., 67 NY2d 138 [1986]). Furthermore, the appellant failed to proffer a reasonable excuse for its failure to appear in this action or to respond to numerous notices of default (see Truscello v Olympia Constr., 294 AD2d 350 [2002]). Such a pattern of default or neglect is considered intentional and should not be excused (see De La Barrera v Handler, 290 AD2d 476 [2002]). However, the appellant should be permitted to contest the issue of damages. As more than one year had elapsed since the appellant’s default in appearing and answering, the appellant was entitled to at least five days’ notice of the time and place of the inquest (see CPLR 3215 [g]; Astron Steel Fabrications v Kent Restoration, 283 AD2d 381 [2001]). Since the appellant did not receive such notice and was entitled to give testimony and offer proof on the issue of damages (see Rokina Opt. Co. v Camera King, 63 NY2d 728 [1984]), the Supreme Court should have permitted the appellant to appear at the inquest. Accordingly, we remit the matter for a new inquest on the issue of damages. Altman, J.P, S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendant Michael Johnson appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Hart, J.), dated February 28, 2003, as denied his motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against him on the ground that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the defendant Michael Johnson, and the action against the remaining defendants is severed. The appellant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against him should have been granted. The appellant established a prima facie case that the plaintiff’s injuries were not serious by submitting, inter alia, the affirmed medical report of his examining orthopedist, which stated that he examined her and found no objective evidence of disability (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car, 98 NY2d 345 [2002]; Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955, 956-957 [1992]). The evidence submitted by the plaintiff in opposition to the motion was insufficient to raise a triable issue of fact. The affidavit of the plaintiff’s treating chiropractor failed to specifically quantify any initial or subsequent loss of range of motion in the plaintiffs cervical and lumbar spines (see Ifrach v Neiman, 306 AD2d 380 [2003]; Pajda v Pedone, 303 AD2d 729 [2003]; Claude v Clements, 301 AD2d 554 [2003]; Kassim v City of New York, 298 AD2d 431 [2002]). Furthermore, the chiropractor did not discuss the nature and extent of his treatment of the plaintiff, or explain the significant gap between the plaintiffs initial six-month treatment period and the final examination (see Francis v Christopher, 302 AD2d 425 [2003]; Sambajon v Everett, 301 AD2d 510 [2003]; Gorbas v Dowgiallo, 287 AD2d 690 [2001]). Florio, J.E, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants appeal (1), as limited by their brief, from so much of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Schulman, J.), entered February 6, 2002, as, upon a jury verdict on the issue of liability finding the defendant Maria Barretta 40% at fault and the plaintiff 60% at fault in the happening of the accident, and upon a separate jury verdict on the issue of damages, is in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendants in the principal sum of $603,778.40 ($64,104 [40% of $160,260] for past loss of earnings, $126,714.40 [40% of $316,786] for future loss of earnings, $2,160 [40% of $5,400] for past household services, $10,800 [40% of $27,000] for future household services, $160,000 [40% of $400,000] for past pain and suffering, and $240,000 [40% of $600,000] for future pain and suffering) and (2) from an order of the same court dated May 6, 2002, which denied their motion pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a) to set aside the jury verdict on the issue of damages and for a new trial thereon, and the plaintiff cross-appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of the judgment as, upon an order of the same court dated December 17, 2001, denying her motion pursuant to CPLR 4404, inter alia, to set aside the jury verdict on liability, in effect, was based upon the jury verdict finding her to be 60% at fault in the happening of the accident. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law and as a matter of discretion, without costs or disbursements, the motion is granted, so much of the judgment as awarded damages is vacated, and a new trial is granted on the issue of damages; and it is further, Ordered that the appeal from the judgment is dismissed as academic, without costs or disbursements; and it is further, Ordered that the judgment is affirmed as cross-appealed from, without costs or disbursements. A jury verdict should not be set aside as against the weight of the evidence unless the jury could not have reached the verdict on any fair interpretation of the evidence (see Nicastro v Park, 113 AD2d 129, 134 [1985]). Moreover, the fact-finding function of the jury and its determination of issues of credibility are accorded great deference (see Murphy v Estate of Vece, 173 AD2d 445 [1991]; Salazar v Fisher, 147 AD2d 470, 471-472 [1989]). The jury finding that the plaintiff was 60% at fault and the defendant Maria Barretta was 40% at fault in the happening of the accident is consistent with a fair interpretation of the evidence and any alleged errors in the liability trial do not require reversal. Consequently, the Supreme Court properly denied the plaintiffs motion to set aside the verdict on liability (see Salazar v Fisher, supra). We remit the matter for a new trial on damages. Where a judge participates to an unwarranted extent in the cross-examination of a witness, or where a judge’s cross-examination of a witness hints at prejudice, as happened here when the defendants’ expert medical witness testified, the interests of justice require a new trial (see Mantuano v Mehale, 258 AD2d 566, 567 [1999]; Gerichten v Ruiz, 80 AD2d 578 [1981]). Furthermore, the Supreme Court erred in failing to give a missing witness charge with respect to Dr. Frank J. Cammisa, Jr. The defendants established their entitlement to such a charge (see People v Keen, 94 NY2d 533, 539 [2000]; Chandler v Flynn, 111 AD2d 300 [1985]), in response to which the plaintiff failed to meet her burden of demonstrating that Dr. Cammisa was unavailable or not under her control, or that his testimony would be cumulative (see Price v City of New York, 258 AD2d 635, 636 [1999]; Adkins v Queens Van-Plan, 293 AD2d 503 [2002]). In addition, the plaintiffs bill of particulars should have been amended to reflect her claim for future loss of earnings. The parties’ remaining contentions either are without merit or academic in light of our determination. Altman, J.E, Mc-Ginity and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for "personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County. (Flug, J.), dated October 15, 2001, as denied that branch of their motion which was for partial summary judgment on the issue of liability on the cause of action to recover damages pursuant to Labor Law § 240 (1) and granted those branches of the motion of the defendants New York City School Construction Authority and the Board of Education of the City of New York which were for summary judgment dismissing the causes of action pursuant to Labor Law § 200 and based on common-law negligence insofar as asserted against them; the defendants New York City School Construction Authority and the Board of Education of the City of New York separately cross-appeal from so much of the same order as denied that branch of their motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action pursuant to Labor Law § 240 (1) insofar as asserted against them, and the defendant Babcock Davis Hatchways, Inc., separately cross-appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of the same order as granted those branches of the motion of the defendants New York City School Construction Authority and the Board of Education of the City of New York which were for summary judgment dismissing its cross claims against those defendants for common-law indemnification and contribution. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, by deleting the provision thereof denying that branch of the motion of the defendants New York City School Construction Authority and the Board of Education of the City of New York which was for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action pursuant to Labor Law § 240 (1) insofar as asserted against those defendants, and substituting therefor a provision granting that branch of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed and cross-appealed from, with one bill of costs to the defendants New York City School Construction Authority and the Board of Education of the City of New York payable by the plaintiffs and Babcock Davis Hatchways, Inc. The injured plaintiff was employed by Citnalta Construction Corporation which had contracted with the defendant New York City School Construction Authority (hereinafter the SCA) to perform boiler renovation work at a property owned by the defendant Board of Education of the City of New York (hereinafter the Board). The injured plaintiff was the project superintendent. On the date of the accident, the injured plaintiff was on his way to the boiler room to conduct a final walk-through inspection. In order to gain access to the boiler room, the injured plaintiff crawled through the open hatchway cover of an ashpit vault and began descending a permanently-fixed ladder. When his shoulders were level with the hatchway opening, the hatchway door closed on his head, causing him to fall 12 feet to the ground. The hatchway door, which was manufactured by the defendant Babcock Davis Hatchways, Inc. (hereinafter Babcock), was kept open by a spring attached to a slide arm and hold-handle. The Supreme Court erred in denying that branch of the motion of the SCA and the Board which was for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action pursuant to Labor Law § 240 (1). The permanently-fixed ladder functioned properly, and the injured plaintiff fell only after he was hit by the closing hatchway cover. However, the hatchway cover does not constitute a “falling object” (see Melber v 6333 Main St., 91 NY2d 759, 763 [1998]; Misseritti v Mark IV Constr. Co., 86 NY2d 487, 490-491 [1995]). To come within the ambit of the statute, the injured plaintiff must show that an object fell “while being hoisted or secured, because of the absence or inadequacy of a safety device of the kind enumerated in the statute” (Narducci v Manhasset Bay Assoc., 96 NY2d 259, 268 [2001] [emphasis in original]; see Labor Law § 240 [1] [listing “scaffolding,” “hoists,” “stays,” “ladders,” “slings,” “hangers,” “pulleys,” “braces,” and “ropes,” to name a few of the devices]). The fact that gravity worked upon the hatchway cover and caused the injury is insufficient to support a Labor Law § 240 (1) claim (see Rodriguez v Tietz Ctr. for Nursing Care, 84 NY2d 841, 843 [1994]; Ross v Curtis-Palmer Hydro-Elec. Co., 81 NY2d 494, 501 [1993]; Fegundes v New York Tel. Co., 285 AD2d 526, 527 [2001]; Maggi v Innovax Methods Group Co., 250 AD2d 576 [1998]; cf. Quinlan v Eastern Refractories Co., 217 AD2d 819, 820 [1995]; Davis v Pizzagalli Constr. Co., 186 AD2d 960, 961 [1992]). This was clearly a general hazard of the workplace, not one contemplated to be subject to Labor Law § 240 (1) (see Misseritti v Mark IV Constr. Co., supra). Moreover, the Board and the SCA established their entitlement to summary judgment dismissing the causes of action pursuant to Labor Law § 200 and common-law negligence by demonstrating that they did not exercise control over the work performed, or have actual or constructive notice of the allegedly dangerous condition (see Russin v Picciano & Son, 54 NY2d 311, 317 [1981]; Bright v Orange & Rockland Utils., 284 AD2d 359, 360 [2001]; Braun v Fischbach & Moore, 280 AD2d 506, 507 [2001]; Loiacono v Lehrer McGovern Bovis, 270 AD2d 464, 465 [2000]). In opposition, the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact (see Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). Furthermore, the Supreme Court properly granted those branches of the motion of the Board and the SCA which were for summary judgment dismissing Babcock’s cross claims for common-law indemnification and contribution. In opposition to the prima facie showing of their entitlement to judgment as a matter of law dismissing these cross claims, Babcock interposed an attorney’s affirmation claiming that the motion was premature, but otherwise failed to submit any evidence that the Board or the SCA exercised any control over the injured plaintiff’s work (see Loiacono v Lehrer McGovern Bovis, supra; cf. Dawson v Pavarini Constr. Co., 228 AD2d 466, 468 [1996]). We note that the Board’s notice of cross appeal was limited to so much of the order as denied that branch of its motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action pursuant to Labor Law § 240 (1). Thus, the Board’s contention that the Supreme Court erred in denying that branch of its motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action pursuant to Labor Law § 241 (6) is not properly before us (see CPLR 5515 [1]; Flemmings v St. Marks Hous. Assoc., Phase II, 272 AD2d 442, 444 [2000]; Vias v Rohan, 119 AD2d 672 [1986]). Florio, J.P., Schmidt, Crane and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of contract, the defendant appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Cozzens, J.), entered November 9, 2001, which, upon a jury verdict in favor of the plaintiffs and upon an order of the same court entered March 23, 2001, denying its motion, inter alia, to set aside the jury verdict pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a), is in favor of the plaintiffs and against it in the principal sum of $423,000. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, by (1) deleting the provision thereof which is in favor of the plaintiffs and against the defendant in the principal sum of $423,000 and substituting therefor a provision which is in favor of the plaintiff Outokumpu Copper USA, Inc., and against the defendant in the principal sum of $5,300.37, and (2) adding thereto a provision dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted by the plaintiff Outokumpu Copper Rolled Products AB; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed, with costs to the defendant, those branches of the motion which were to set aside the jury verdict pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a) and to dismiss the complaint insofar as asserted by the plaintiff Outokumpu Copper Rolled Products AB are granted, the order entered March 23, 2001, is modified accordingly, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Nassau County, for the entry of an appropriate amended judgment. The plaintiffs commenced this action to recover moneys allegedly owed by the defendant for the purchase of quantities of metal. However, the sole competent, admissible evidence proffered by the plaintiffs at the trial was testimony concerning two invoices with balances due totaling $5,300.37 owed to the plaintiff Outokumpu Copper USA, Inc. The lack of competent, admissible proof was due, among other reasons, to the fact that the plaintiffs, as the result of a failure to comply with disclosure, were precluded from introducing into evidence certain business records maintained in Sweden, or testimony concerning the same (see Neuman Distribs. v Falak Pharm. Corp., 289 AD2d 310 [2001]; United Consol. Indus, v Mendel’s Auto Parts, 150 AD2d 768 [1989]). Thus, with the exception of the evidence as to the $5,300.37 owed to Outokumpu Copper USA, Inc., the plaintiffs completely failed to meet their burden of proof as to damages (see Cohen v Hallmark Cards, 45 NY2d 493, 499 [1978]; Nicastro v Park, 113 AD2d 129 [1985]). Ritter, J.P, Luciano, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Cohalan, J.), dated September 24, 2002, which denied their motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the complaint is dismissed. It is well settled that the proponent of a summary judgment motion must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, tendering sufficient evidence to demonstrate the absence of any triable issues of fact (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320, 324 [1986]; Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851, 853 [1985]; Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). Here, the defendants made a prima facie showing that they were not negligent. In opposition, the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact. Thus, the Supreme Court should have granted the motion for summary judgment (see CPLR 3212). In light of our determination, we need not reach the defendants’ remaining contentions. Krausman, J.E, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for medical malpractice, the plaintiff appeals from (1) an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Patterson, J.), dated July 15, 2002, which granted the motion of the defendants Kathy Panken Plesser and Murray Hill Radiology & Mammography, EC., for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them, and (2) a judgment of the same court entered September 18, 2002, upon the order, dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against those defendants. Ordered that the appeal from the order is dismissed; and it is further, Ordered that the judgment is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded, to the respondents. The appeal from the intermediate order must be dismissed because the right of direct appeal therefrom terminated with the entry of judgment in the action (see Matter of Aho, 39 NY2d 241, 248 [1976]). The issues raised on appeal from the order are brought up for review and have been considered on the appeal from the judgment (see CPLR 5501 [a] [1]). Contrary to the plaintiffs contention, the defendants Kathy Panken Plesser and Murray Hill Radiology &. Mammography, PC., demonstrated their prima facie entitlement to summary judgment by establishing that they did not depart from accepted medical practice (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]). In opposition, the plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact (see Zawadzki v Knight, 76 NY2d 898 [1990]; Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557 [1980]; Sheikh v Sinha, 272 AD2d 465 [2000]; Fhima v Maimonides Med. Ctr., 269 AD2d 559 [2000]; Kaplan v Hamilton Med. Assoc., 262 AD2d 609 [1999]). Santucci, J.P., S. Miller, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In two related actions to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., Alyssa Pfleging and William Pfleging, plaintiffs in both actions, appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (DiBlasi, J.), entered August 13, 2002, as denied that branch of their motion which was for leave to amend the complaint in Action No. 1 to allege the applicability of 42 USC § 9658 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (42 USC § 9601 et seq.), as amended, against the defendant International Business Machines Corporation. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The plaintiff William Pfleging was employed by the defendant International Business Machines Corporation (hereinafter IBM) from 1973 until 1976 at the IBM facility in East Fishkill, New York. In the course of his employment there, William allegedly was exposed to a variety of toxic chemicals commonly used in the manufacturing of semiconductor chips. His daughter, the plaintiff Alyssa Pfleging, was born on December 24, 1974, with severe birth defects. Based upon their claim that Alyssa’s birth defects were caused by William’s chemical exposure while employed by IBM, on August 13,1996, William and Alyssa (hereinafter the plaintiffs) and others commenced Action No. 1 against IBM and the companies that produced and distributed the chemicals, alleging causes of action sounding, inter alia, in negligence, strict products liability, and loss of services. On October 2, 1997, Action No. 2 was commenced against additional chemical manufacturing companies. By order entered June 27, 2001, the Supreme Court granted the defendants’ joint motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaints in both actions insofar as asserted by the plaintiffs as barred by the relevant New York statute of limitations (see CPLR 214-c). By. order entered November 27, 2001, the Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs’ motion for leave to reargue or to amend the complaints in both actions to add allegations that IBM released hazardous chemicals into the environment from its East Fishkill facility. The plaintiffs thereby sought to obtain the benefit of 42 USC § 9658 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (42 USC § 9601 et seq.; hereinafter CERCLA), as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which preempts the accrual date for state law toxic tort actions based upon exposure to hazardous substances. That branch of the plaintiffs’ motion which was for leave to amend was denied on the ground that the plaintiffs failed to include an affidavit of merit in their initial moving papers. The plaintiffs again moved for leave to amend their complaints in both actions to add the same allegations. By order entered August 13, 2002, the Supreme Court treated the motion as, in effect, one for leave to renew the prior summary judgment motion, granted renewal, and upon renewal, denied that branch of the motion which was for leave to amend on the ground that their allegations did not come within the purview of CERCLA and, even if they did, their claims were still time-barred. The plaintiffs appeal from the August 13, 2002, order only insofar as the Supreme Court denied leave to amend the complaint in Action No. 1 to assert CERCLA claims against IBM. We affirm, albeit for different reasons than those stated by the Supreme Court. As a threshold matter, IBM contends that this appeal should be dismissed based upon the dismissals by this Court of the plaintiffs’ appeals from orders of the same court dated June 27, 2001, and November 27, 2001, for failure to prosecute (see 22 NYCRR 670.8 [h]). As a general rule, we do not consider any issue raised on a subsequent appeal that was raised, or could have been raised, in an earlier appeal from an order which was dismissed for lack of prosecution, although we have the inherent jurisdiction to do so (see Rubeo v National Grange Mut. Ins. Co., 93 NY2d 750 [1999]; Bray v Cox, 38 NY2d 350 [1976]). The main issue raised on this appeal—the sufficiency of the proposed amended complaint—could not have been raised on either of the appeals from the June 27, 2001, or November 27, 2001, orders. Accordingly, that issue is properly before us. However, to the extent that the plaintiffs also seek review of the June 27, 2001, and November 27, 2001, orders, this Court will not, under the circumstances of this case, consider any issues that could have been raised on those prior appeals (see Rubeo v National Grange Mut. Ins. Co., supra; Bray v Cox, supra). Turning to the merits, the proposed amended complaint essentially alleges that William Pfleging carried out of the workplace and surrounding area hazardous substances on his clothing and within his body to which his wife and daughter in útero were exposed. Even assuming that 42 USC § 9658 applies so as to render the plaintiffs’ claims timely, the proposed amended complaint fails to state a cognizable cause of action against IBM under either common-law negligence or strict products liability (see Widera v Ettco Wire & Cable Corp., 204 AD2d 306 [1994]; see also Enright v Lilly & Co., 77 NY2d 377 [1991], cert denied 502 US 868 [1991]; Catherwood v American Sterilizer Co., 130 Misc 2d 872 [1986], affd on op below 126 AD2d 978, 980 [1987]). Since 42 USC § 9658 does not create a separate federal cause of action (see In re Pfohl Bros. Landfill Litig., 68 F Supp 2d 236, 248 [1999], vacated and remanded on other grounds sub nom. Freier v Westinghouse Elec. Corp., 303 F3d 176 [2002], cert denied — US —, 123 S Ct 1899 [2003]), leave to amend must be denied, as there is no merit to the proposed amendment (see Tarantini v Russo Realty Corp., 273 AD2d 458, 459 [2000]; Alejandro v Riportella, 250 AD2d 556, 557 [1998]). In light of the foregoing, it is unnecessary to address the parties’ remaining contentions. Altman, J.P, Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendant Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company of New York, Inc., appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (O’Donoghue, J.), dated September 17, 2002, which denied its motion pursuant to CPLR 7503 (a) to compel arbitration. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. In 1996 the plaintiff Michael Sammarco (hereinafter the plaintiff), entered into an agreement (hereinafter the Agreement) with the defendant Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company of New York, Inc. (hereinafter Pepsi), to distribute Pepsi products. The Agreement, which covered the commercial aspects of the parties’ relationship, contained an arbitration provision stating in pertinent part, that “[a]ny and all disputes or disagreements between the Company and the Distributor concerning the interpretation of application of the provisions of this Agreement, shall be determined in arbitration” (emphasis supplied). In January 2002 the plaintiff was injured in a warehouse owned by Pepsi. Thereafter, the plaintiff and his wife commenced this lawsuit against Pepsi seeking damages, inter alia, for personal injuries. Pepsi moved to compel arbitration of the plaintiffs’ claims based upon the arbitration clause of the Agreement. The Supreme Court denied the motion, holding that the “arbitration agreement is not applicable to the personal injury action.” We agree. In the case of Bowmer v Bowmer (50 NY2d 288, 293-294 [1980]), the Court of Appeals stated: “[A]s with [arbitration] provisions in the commercial context generally, the rule is clear that unless the agreement to arbitrate expressly and unequivocally encompasses the subject matter of the particular dispute, a party cannot be compelled to forego the right to seek judicial relief and instead submit to arbitration (see Gangel v DeGroot, 41 NY2d 840, 841 [1977]).” (Accord Computer Assoc. Intl. v Com-Tech Assoc., 239 AD2d 379 [1997]). Notwithstanding the fact that the plaintiff fell in a warehouse owned by Pepsi while performing his duties as a Pepsi distributor, the personal injury claims arising from his accident do not “concern the interpretation of the application of the provisions” of the Agreement. Indeed, such claims could not concern the interpretation of the Agreement’s provisions since the Agreement contains no provision relating to personal injury. In other words, there is no “reasonable relationship” between the personal injury claims and the general subject matter of the Agreement (see Matter of Nationwide Gen. Ins. Co. v Investors Ins. Co. of Am., 37 NY2d 91 [1975]); nor does the arbitration provision of the Agreement “expressly and unequivocally encompass the subject matter” of this “particular dispute” (Bowmer v Bowmer, supra at 293-294). Thus, the plaintiffs were not required to submit their personal injury claims to arbitration, and accordingly, the Supreme Court properly denied Pepsi’s motion to compel arbitration. Santucci, J.P., Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, for a judgment declaring that the defendant does not have a life estate in certain real property owned by the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Seidell, J.), dated September 10, 2002, which denied their motion for summary judgment. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, for entry of an appropriate judgment. By deed dated November 15, 2001, Sarah Grand transferred title to certain real property to the plaintiffs “subject to a retained life estate” in herself and the defendant, Walter Grand. Mrs. Grand died on March 11, 2002. The defendant refused to vacate the premises after Mrs. Grand’s death and the plaintiffs commenced this action seeking, inter alia, a declaration that the defendant does not have a life estate in the property. The reservation of a life estate in the deed did not create a valid interest in favor of the defendant, who was a “stranger to the deed,” even assuming that it was Mrs. Grand’s intention to create such a life estate (see Matter of Estate of Thomson v Wade, 69 NY2d 570, 573-574 [1987]; Tuscarora Club of Millbrook v Brown, 215 NY 543 [1915]; Beachside Bungalow Preserv. Assn. of Far Rockaway v Oceanview Assoc., 301 AD2d 488 [2003]; Lechtenstein v P.E.F. Enters., 189 AD2d 858 [1993]). Consequently, the Supreme Court should have granted the plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment. Altman, J.P., Smith, Friedmann and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of written and implied warranties pursuant to the Magnuson-Moss Warranty-Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act (15 USC § 2301 et seq.), the plaintiffs appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (McCarty, J.), dated December 12, 2002, as granted those branches of the defendants’ motion which were for summary judgment dismissing the third cause of action in the complaint based on the remedy of revocation of acceptance and the claims for incidental damages, and the defendants cross-appeal from stated portions of the same order. Ordered that the cross appeal is dismissed as abandoned (see 22 NYCRR 670.8 [c], [e]);. and .it is further, Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, by deleting the provisions thereof granting those branches of the motion which were for summary judgment dismissing the . third cause of action based on revocation of acceptance, and dismissing the claim for incidental damages insofar as asserted against the defendant East Hills Chrysler Plymouth, Inc., and substituting therefor a provision denying those branches of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs purchased a new automobile from the defendant East Hills Chrysler Plymouth, Inc. (hereinafter East Hills), an authorized dealer of the defendant manufacturer Daimler-Chrysler Corporation (hereinafter Daimler). Two years later, they commenced this action against East Hills and Daimler pursuant to the Magnuson-Moss Warranty-Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act (hereinafter the MMWA) (see 15 USC § 2301 et seq.), alleging, inter alia, breach of written and implied warranties and revocation, of acceptance. The Supreme Court erred in granting that branch of the defendants’ motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the revocation of acceptance cause of action. Initially, the plaintiffs may assert a cause of action pursuant to the MMWA against Daimler for breach of its written warranty as the statute abolished the requirement of privity with respect to claims by a consumer against a warrantor (see Abraham v Volkswagen of Am., 795 F2d 238, 248 [2d Cir 1986]; 15 USC §§ 2301, 2310 [d]). However, Daimler issued a “limited,” rather than a “full,” written warranty, and the MMWA is silent as to the remedies for breach of a limited written warranty (cf. 15 USC § 2304 [a] [4] [a full warranty must include a choice of a refund or replacement without charge for a defective product]). Accordingly, the court must look to state law to determine the plaintiffs’ entitlement to damages or other legal or equitable relief (see 15 USC § 2310 [d]; Murphy v Mallard Coach Co., 179 AD2d 187 [1992]; MacKenzie v Chrysler Corp., 607 F2d 1162, 1166 [5th Cir 1979]; Novosel v Northway Motor Car Corp., 460 F Supp 541, 545 [ND NY 1978]). We conclude that the absence of privity does not bar application of the remedy of revocation of acceptance for breach of a limited written warranty under the MMWA (see DiCintio v DaimlerChrysler Corp., 282 AD2d 276 [2001], revd on other grounds 97 NY2d 463 [2002]; Gochey v Bombardier, Inc., 153 Vt 607, 610-613, 572 A2d 921, 923-924 [1990]; Ventura v Ford Motor Corp., 180 NJ Super 45, 65-66, 433 A2d 801, 811-812 [1981]; cf. Funk v Montgomery AMC/Jeep/Renault, 66 Ohio App 3d 815, 586 NE2d 1113 [1990]). Since the MMWA makes a warrantor directly liable to a consumer for breach of a written warranty, it would be inconsistent with the purpose of the statute to impose a privity requirement with respect to the remedies for that breach. Furthermore, a buyer may obtain a refund of the purchase price from a manufacturer for breach of an express warranty, without regard to privity, under provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (see UCC 2-714 [2]; 2-719 [2]; Murphy v Mallard Coach Co., supra; Durfee v Rod Baxter Imports, 262 NW2d 349 [1977] [Minn]). Given the remedial purposes of the MMWA, we conclude that the plaintiffs’ cause of action for revocation of acceptance should be reinstated insofar as asserted against Daimler. The plaintiffs, at the time of their purchase of the automobile, also purchased a service contract from East Hills. Pursuant to 15 USC § 2308 (a), a “supplier,” such as East Hills, may not disclaim any implied warranty to a consumer if, at the time of the sale, or within 90 days thereafter, the “supplier” entered into a Service contract with the consumer. Therefore, East Hills may not disclaim the implied warranty of merchantability, and the plaintiffs have asserted a cause of action to recover damages for breach of implied warranty against it pursuant to the MMWA. State privity laws apply with respect to a claim for breach of an implied warranty under the MMWA (see Abraham v Volkswagen of Am., supra). However, as there is no dispute that the plaintiffs and East Hills are in privity, the Supreme Court erred in dismissing the cause of action for revocation of acceptance insofar as asserted against East Hills. The Supreme Court properly dismissed the plaintiffs’ claim for incidental damages insofar as asserted against Daimler. The MMWA does not prohibit a limitation on such damages in a written warranty (see 15 USC § 2304 [a] [3]; § 2311 [b] [2]), and, under state law, the test is whether the limitation is unconscionable (see UCC 2-719 [3]). Contrary to the plaintiffs’ contention, we conclude that the limitation on incidental damages in Daimler’s warranty is not unconscionable. The Supreme Court erred, however, in dismissing the plaintiffs’ claim for incidental damages insofar as asserted against East Hills. East Hills was precluded from disclaiming an implied warranty of merchantability, and the plaintiffs may recover incidental damages for breach of an implied warranty under UCC 2-714 and 2-715. The parties’ remaining contentions are without merit. Ritter, J.R, Goldstein, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants Kraus Maintenance, Inc., Herman I. Kraus, Kraus Enterprises, Inc., 236-1 Development Corp., and Krause Management, Inc., appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Knipel, J.), dated March 11, 2003, as denied their motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against them, and granted the plaintiffs cross motion to compel them to produce a certain witness for a deposition. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the complaint and all cross claims are dismissed insofar as asserted against the appellants, the action against the remaining defendants is severed, and the cross motion is denied as academic. The plaintiff commenced this action to recover damages arising from an alleged trip and fall on a public sidewalk. The appellants own and/or manage nearby property. However, in opposition to the appellants’ prima facie demonstration of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, the plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact that the alleged defective condition of the sidewalk was created by the appellants through negligent repairs or otherwise, or that the appellants violated a statute or ordinance which expressly imposed liability on them for failing to maintain and repair the sidewalk (see Devine v City of New York, 300 AD2d 532 [2002]; see also Simmons v Guthrie, 304 AD2d 819 [2003]; Lowenthal v Heidrich Realty Corp., 304 AD2d 725 [2003]). The plaintiffs mere hope that she would be able to uncover something during additional disclosure was insufficient to warrant the denial of summary judgment (see Connecticut Indem. Co. v Travelers Ins. Co., 300 AD2d 530 [2002]). Indeed, the record indicates that the area of the sidewalk identified by the plaintiff as the situs of her accident does not abut the appellants’ property. Accordingly, the appellants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against them should have been granted, and the plaintiffs cross motion to compel the appellants to produce a certain witness for a deposition should have been denied as academic. Ritter, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for tortious interference with prospective business relations, the intervener, El Puente de Williamsburg, Inc., appeals from (1) an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Dowd, J.), dated April 12, 2002, which denied its motion for leave to serve a second amended complaint, and (2) an order of the same court dated May 1, 2002, which, in effect, granted the defendants’ motion pursuant to CPLR 4401 made at the close of its case to dismiss its complaint for failure to establish a prima facie case. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated April 12, 2002, is dismissed, as abandoned (see 22 NYCRRR 670.8 [c], [e]); and it is further, Ordered that the order dated May 1, 2002, is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the respondents. In August 1994 the decedent, William Muschel entered into a contract to sell certain property in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn to the plaintiff South Fourth Street Properties, Inc. (hereinafter South Fourth Street). However, the two parties never went to closing. Over two years later, in November of 1996, South Fourth Street contracted to sell the property to El Puente de Williamsburg, Inc. (hereinafter El Puente), subject to South Fourth Street obtaining title from Muschel. Muschel refused to close, claiming that South Fourth Street had abandoned the contract. South Fourth Street commenced the instant action seeking specific performance and/or money damages, and El Puente subsequently was granted leave to intervene as a plaintiff and asserted a cause of action to recover damages for tortious interference with prospective business relations against Muschel. Muschel died, and South Fourth Street eventually settled its claim against his estate. To succeed on its cause of action, El Puente was required to demonstrate that Muschel used unlawful or improper means to interefere with its contract with South Fourth Street, or acted for the sole purpose of inflicting intentional harm on El Puente (see NBT Bancorp v Fleet/Norstar Fin. Group, 215 AD2d 990, 990-991 [1995], affd 87 NY2d 614 [1996]; Bogdan v Peekskill Community Hosp., 211 AJD2d 692, 693 [1995]). There is no allegation that Muschel used unlawful or improper means to interefere with the contract, and El Puente’s evidence established, at best, only that Muschel’s conduct had been financially motivated (see Strasser v Prudential Sec., 218 AD2d 526, 527 [1995]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly determined that El Puente failed to sustain its burden of proof. El Puente’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.P, S. Miller, McGinity and Schmidt, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to compel specific performance of a contract for the sale of real property, the plaintiffs appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Donovan, J.), dated July 11, 2002, which, upon the granting of the defendant’s motion pursuant to CPLR 4401 to dismiss the complaint for failure to make a prima facie case, made at the close of the plaintiffs’ evidence, dismissed the complaint. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law and facts, the motion is denied, the complaint is reinstated, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, for a new trial, with costs to abide the event. The plaintiffs commenced this action, inter alia, to compel specific performance of a contract for the sale of real property owned by the defendant. At the close of the plaintiffs’ evidence, the Supreme Court granted the defendant’s motion pursuant to CPLR 4401 to dismiss the complaint for failure to make a prima facie case. We reverse. Contrary to the plaintiffs’ argument, the Supreme Court properly exercised its discretion in permitting the defendant to amend his answer to interpose the statute of frauds as a defense (see CPLR 3025 [b]; Crivaro v Crivaro, 295 AD2d 304 [2002]; Smith v Peterson Trust, 254 AD2d 479 [1998]). However, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the plaintiffs, and affording them every reasonable inference, it cannot be said that there was no rational process by which the trier of fact could have found for them (see CPLR 4401; Lyons v McCauley, 252 AD2d 516 [1998]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court should not have granted the defendant’s motion pursuant to CPLR 4401 to dismiss the complaint. Ritter, J.P, Florio, S. Miller and Luciano, JJ., concur. [As amended by unpublished order entered Feb. 10, 2004.]
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Kitzes, J.), entered December 14, 2001, as upon a jury verdict in favor of the defendant Jeffrey Lucas and against her, dismissed the complaint. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The plaintiffs contention that the verdict in favor of the defendant Jeffrey Lucas was not based on legally sufficient evidence is without merit, as the evidence presented at the trial provided a rational basis for the jury determination (see Cohen v Hallmark Cards, 45 NY2d 493, 499 [1978]; Miller v Long Is. R.R., 286 AD2d 713, 714 [2001]; Altman v Alpha Obstetrics & Gynecology, 255 AD2d 276, 277 [1998]). In addition, the plaintiff’s contention that the verdict was inconsistent is unpreserved for appellate review because she failed to object on that ground prior to the release of the jurors (see Barry v Manglass, 55 NY2d 803, 806 [1981]; Delacruz v Galaxy Elec., 300 AD2d 278 [2002]; Miller v Long Is. R.R., supra). In any event, the claim of inconsistency is without merit because the verdict can be reconciled with a reasonable view of the evidence (see Miglino v Supermarkets Gen. Corp., 243 AD2d 451 [1997]; Rubin v Pecoraro, 141 AD2d 525, 526 [1988]). Finally, the verdict in favor of the defendant Lucas is supported by a fair interpretation of the evidence (see Nicastro v Park, 113 AD2d 129, 134 [1985]). Smith, J.P, McGinity, H. Miller and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for medical malpractice, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Murphy, J.), entered September 24, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion pursuant to CPLR 3012 (b) to dismiss the action for failure to timely serve a complaint, and denied his cross motion to enlarge his time to serve a complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. It is well settled that to avoid dismissal for failure to serve a complaint after a demand therefor has been served pursuant to CPLR 3012 (b), a plaintiff must demonstrate both a reasonable excuse for the delay in serving the complaint and a meritorious cause of action (see Dunefsky v Petco Animal Supplies, 303 AD2d 620 [2003]; Balgley v Cammarata, 299 AD2d 432 [2002]; Miraglia v County of Nassau, 295 AD2d 411 [2002]). The plaintiff failed to show the existence of a meritorious cause of action. Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly dismissed the action. Santucci, J.E, Goldstein, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for unfair competition, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Friedman, J.H.O.), entered July 22, 2002, as, upon a decision of the same court dated March 27, 2002, made after a nonjury trial, failed to award damages based on the defendant’s sale of products subsequent to the subject 10,000 containers purchased by the plaintiff and used by the defendant, and the defendant cross-appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of the same judgment as is in favor of the plaintiff and against it on the issue of liability and punitive damages. Ordered that the judgment is reversed insofar as cross-appealed from, on the law and the facts, and the complaint is dismissed; and it is further, Ordered that the appeal from the judgment is dismissed as academic, in light of our determination on the cross appeal; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the defendant. To sustain a cause of action to recover damages for unfair competition through the use of a trade name, the plaintiff had to establish that the defendant’s acts “constituted an unfair appropriation or exploitation of any special quality attached to plaintiffs name” (Buffalo Packaging Corp. v Buff-Pac, Inc., 155 AD2d 877, 878 [1989]). The plaintiff failed to meet this burden, as the generic Russian word “Tvorog” and the descriptive terms attached to it, “Soft Cheese Russian Style,” lack any special qualities and, therefore, the plaintiff did not have the exclusive right to appropriate these words (see Sample, Inc. v Porrath, 41 AD2d 118, 122 [1973], affd 33 NY2d 961 [1974]). The Supreme Court erred in finding customer confusion or bad faith with respect to any product, including the 10,000 containers to which the plaintiffs compensatory damages were limited (see Camelot Assoc. Corp. v Camelot Design & Dev., 298 AD2d 799, 800 [2002]). The defendant placed over the plaintiffs name a label naming the new distributor, Gold Star Distributor, on the lids the plaintiff had left with the defendant. In addition, the Supreme Court’s award of punitive damages was improper (see American Elecs. v Neptune Meter Co., 30 AD2d 117, 119 [1968]). Ritter, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for medical malpractice, etc., the plaintiff appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Belen, J.), dated June 24, 2002, as granted those branches of the motion of the defendants Herbert A. Insel, Michael Krumholz, and Lenox Hill Hospital which were for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against the defendants Michael Krumholz and Lenox Hill Hospital. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, those branches of the motion which were for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against the defendants Michael Krumholz and Lenox Hill Hospital are denied, and the complaint is reinstated against those defendants. The defendants Dr. Michael Krumholz and Lenox Hill Hospital failed to establish their entitlement to judgment as a matter of law on the basis of the conclusory affidavit of their expert witness (see Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851, 853 [1985]; Drago v King, 283 AD2d 603 [2001]; Allen v Blum, 212 AD2d 562 [1995]). Therefore, it was unnecessary to reach the sufficiency of the papers submitted in opposition to the motion (see Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., supra; cf., Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320, 324 [1986]; Drago v King, supra; Allen v Blum, supra). Accordingly, the Supreme Court erred in granting those branches of the motion which were for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against Krumholz and Lenox Hill Hospital. Altman, J.E, Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for wrongful death, etc., the defendant appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Price, J.), dated August 21, 2002, which denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the complaint is dismissed. On February 17, 1999, the plaintiffs decedent committed suicide by consuming a quantity of prescription and nonprescription drugs and tying a plastic bag over his head until he was asphyxiated. A number of manufacturers’ bottles of prescription drugs with their lot numbers on them, including, inter alia, the drug Ultram, were found in the decedent’s office at the time of his suicide. Thereafter, the plaintiff commenced this action alleging, in effect, that the defendant illegally supplied the decedent with prescription drugs in manufacturers’ bottles in exchange for cash payments and credit card charges. After depositions and some discovery were completed, the defendant moved for summary judgment. In support thereof, it submitted the deposition testimony of Roger Chin, the defendant’s principal as well as its sole pharmacist, to the effect that he never sold any prescription drugs to the decedent without a prescription, the decedent never asked for prescription drugs without a prescription, that stock bottles are generally not permitted to be given directly to consumers, and that he had cashed checks for the defendant as he did for a few other customers. The defendant’s prescription record for the decedent also shows that the last time it dispensed Ultram to the decedent was December 21, 1996. Chin also testified that during the period February 1998 through February 1999 the defendant purchased its prescription drugs exclusively through Neuman Distributors. In response to this prima facie showing of entitlement to summary judgment by the defendant, the plaintiff merely pointed to the manufacturers’ bottles of prescription drugs found in the decedent’s office, together with the facts that the defendant had cashed $5,400 in checks made out to cash for the decedent and the decedent had charged over $4,200 on his credit card there. The plaintiff asserted that the cashing of the checks pointed to the defendant illegally supplying the decedent with the prescription drugs, which contributed to his suicide. The plaintiff also asserted that due to the defendant’s failure to maintain a proper inventory record, it had been unable to trace the bottles from the manufacturer to the defendant. Chin’s testimony was sufficient to make out the defendant’s prima facie case that it did not illegally supply the decedent with prescription drugs in exchange for cash payments. In response to this showing, all the plaintiff showed was speculative assertions that the defendant supplied the drugs to the plaintiffs decedent based on the fact that the defendant cashed checks for the plaintiffs’ decedent and that drug manufacturer’s stock bottles were found near the decedent’s body after his death. Further, although the plaintiff had the relevant lot number on the aforementioned manufacturers’ bottles, she failed to show any link between the manufacturer’s vials found at the scene of the decedent’s death and either the defendant or the defendant’s exclusive distributor. As the plaintiff raised only mere speculation that the defendant illegally supplied the plaintiffs decedent with prescription drugs, the motion should have been granted (see generally Mazzone v Lazaroff, 305 AD2d 558 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 512 [2003]; Klor v American Airlines, 305 AD2d 550 [2003]; Smith v Johnson Prods. Co., 95 AD2d 675 [1983]). Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and Luciano, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Durante, J.), dated December 17, 2002, as denied that branch of their motion which was to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3126. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, that branch of the motion which was to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3126 is granted, and the complaint is dismissed. The Supreme Court improvidently exercised its discretion in denying that branch of the defendants’ motion which was to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3126. The plaintiffs willful and contumacious conduct can be inferred from his repeated failure to comply with orders directing him to appear for an examination before trial and the inadequate excuses offered for his failure to comply (see Porreco v Selway, 225 AD2d 752 [1996]). Accordingly, that branch of the defendants’ motion which was to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3126 should have been granted. Ritter, J.P., Smith, Friedmann, H. Miller and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Emerson, J.), entered November 18, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that he did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is denied, and the complaint is reinstated. In support of the motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, the defendant submitted, inter alia, magnetic resonance imaging (hereinafter MRI) test reports of the plaintiff’s lumbar and cervical spine, which revealed a disc herniation at L5-S1 and a disc bulge at C7-T1, respectively, and the affirmed reports of the defendant’s radiologist and examining orthopedist and neurologist. The defendant’s radiologist indicated in his report, inter alia, that he reviewed the MRIs of the plaintiffs lumbar and cervical spine, and that such tests revealed a disc bulge at “C7-1” and a disc herniation at L5-S1. Both of the defendant’s examining physicians also indicated that their review of the plaintiffs medical records revealed the finding of a disc herniation at L5-S1 and a disc bulge at C7-T1. Further, both examining physicians concluded that the plaintiff did not suffer from any limitation of range of motion, and did not sustain a serious injury. The defendant failed to make a prima facie showing that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Both of the defendant’s examining physicians failed to demonstrate that the disc bulge and herniation were not causally related to the accident, or that the injuries were not serious within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) (see Gray v Lasurdo, 302 AD2d 560 [2003]; Woods-Smith v Tighe, 291 AD2d 399 [2002]; Papadonikolakis v First Fid. Leasing Group, 283 AD2d 470 [2001]). Further, both examining physicians failed to set forth the objective tests they performed to support their findings that the plaintiff had no limitation of range of motion (see Black v Robinson, 305 AD2d 438 [2003]; Junco v Ranzi, 288 AD2d 440 [2001]). Therefore, since the defendant failed to establish her entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, we need not consider the sufficiency of the plaintiff’s opposition papers (see Black v Robinson, supra; Junco v Ranzi, supra). Santucci, J.P., Goldstein, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to Mental Hygiene Law article 81 for the appointment of a guardian for Rosa B.-S., the appeal is from a resettled judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Thomas, J.), entered May 23, 2001, which, upon a jury verdict, inter alia, determined that the appellant was an incapacitated person and appointed a guardian. Ordered that on the Court’s own motion, the notice of appeal from an order of the same court dated February 20, 2001, is deemed a premature notice of appeal from the resettled judgment (see CPLR 5520 [c]); and it is further, Ordered that the resettled judgment is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The rules of evidence apply in guardianship proceedings, but “[a] court may, for good cause shown, waive the rules of evidence” (Mental Hygiene Law § 81.12 [b]; see Matter of Janczak, 167 Misc 2d 766, 770 [1995]). The waiver provision set forth in Mental Hygiene Law § 81.12 (b) is applicable only in uncontested proceedings where there is consent to the appointment of a guardian (see Matter of Janczak, supra at 771). In this proceeding, the trial court was required to follow the rules of evidence, including the assertion and waiver of the doctor-patient privilege (see CPLR 4504), since the appellant did not consent to the appointment of a guardian. Although a guardianship proceeding places the alleged incapacitated person’s medical and mental condition in controversy, he or she does not waive the doctor-patient privilege unless he or she has affirmatively placed his or her medical condition in issue (see Dillenbeck v Hess, 73 NY2d 278 [1989]; Matter of Goldfarb, 160 Misc 2d 1036, 1042 [1994]; Matter of Flowers, 148 Misc 2d 166, 168 [1990]). The trial court improperly allowed testimony from the appellant’s former physician regarding his treatment of her in violation of the doctor-patient privilege, as the appellant neither waived the privilege nor affirmatively asserted her mental condition at trial (see CPLR 4504; Dillenbeck v Hess, supra at 286-287; Matter of Goldfarb, supra; Matter of Flowers, supra). However, contrary to the appellant’s contention, the trial court’s error in admitting her former physician’s testimony does not warrant a new trial since the testimony of the appellant’s children established the appellant’s inability to care for her medical, personal, or financial needs, and Mental Hygiene Law article 81 does not require medical testimony in a guardianship proceeding (see Matter of Harriet R., 224 AD2d 625 [1996] ; Matter of Kustka, 163 Misc 2d 694 [1994]). The appellant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Krausman, J.P, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 75 to stay arbitration of an uninsured motorist claim, which had been granted by a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Trainor, J.H.O.), dated August 1, 2000, Mahendra Persaud appeals from an order of the same court (Bucaria, J.) dated February 10, 2003, which denied his motion for leave to renew. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. In a proceeding to stay arbitration of an uninsured motorist claim, the Supreme Court properly denied the appellant’s motion for leave to renew. After entry of a final judgment, a motion for leave to renew pursuant to CPLR 2221 (e) (2) based upon “a change in the law that would change the prior determination” must be made, absent circumstances set forth in CPLR 5015, before the time to appeal the final judgment has expired (see Glicksman v Board of Educ./Cent. School Bd. of Comsewogue Union Free School Dist., 278 AD2d 364, 365-366 [2000]). The appellant’s motion was made after judgment was entered and it is undisputed that the time to appeal had expired. Thus, it was untimely. In any event, the Supreme Court properly determined that this proceeding is distinguishable from, and therefore not governed by, the holding in Matter of American Mfrs. Mut. Ins. Co. v Morgan (296 AD2d 491 [2002]). In Morgan, this Court held that under the expanded definition of an uninsured motor vehicle contained in the Supplementary Uninsured/ Underinsured Motorists (hereinafter SUM) coverage purchased by the insured in that proceeding, the insolvency of the offending vehicle’s insurer rendered the offending vehicle uninsured, thereby allowing arbitration of the insured’s claim for damages (see Matter of American Mfrs. Mut. Ins. Co. v Morgan, supra at 493-494). In the proceeding at bar, the appellant failed to submit any evidence in support of his motion for leave to renew establishing that SUM coverage existed for the vehicle he was driving (see Matter of Eagle Ins. Co. v St. Julian, 297 AD2d 737, 738 [2002]). The appellant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Ritter, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Crane, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 to review a determination of the Assessor of the County of Nassau and Board of Assessors of the County of Nassau, dated April 1, 2002, which denied the petitioner’s application, inter alia, for a real property tax exemption for the tax year 2002/2003, the petitioner appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Warshawsky, J.), entered September 18, 2002, which denied the petition and dismissed the proceeding. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. The record supports the Supreme Court’s determination that the petitioner was not entitled, to a tax exemption pursuant to RPTL 420-a (1) or (3). The petitioner failed to demonstrate that its property was used exclusively for one or more of the exempt purposes set forth in RPTL 420-a (1) (a) (see Matter of Yeshivath Shearith Hapletah v Assessor of Town of Fallsburg, 79 NY2d 244, 249; Matter of Swedenborg Found, v Lewisohn, 40 NY2d 87, 93-94 [1976]; Matter of Association of Bar of City of N.Y. v Lewisohn, 34 NY2d 143, 153 [1974]). Nor did the petitioner demonstrate entitlement to an exemption pursuant to RPTL 420-a (3) (see Economic Opportunity Commn. of Nassau County v Village of Hempstead, 148 AD2d 570 [1989]; Congregation K’hal Torath Chaim v Town of Ramapo, 72 AD2d 804, 805 [1979]). Thus, there was a rational basis for the respondents’ determination that the petitioner failed to establish entitlement to an exemption from real estate taxes (see RPTL 420-a; Matter of Pell v Board of Educ., 34 NY2d 222, 230-231 [1974]; Matter of Marble Masonic Historical Socy. v Tuckahoe Assessment Review Bd., 262 AD2d 487, 488 [1999]). The petitioner’s remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.E, McGinity, H. Miller and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 75 to confirm three arbitration awards, Cannon Express Corp. appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Bellantoni, J.), entered October 23, 2002, which granted the petitioner’s motion to confirm the awards and denied its cross motion to vacate the awards. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is denied, the cross motion is granted, and the arbitration awards are vacated. Hanover Insurance Company (hereinafter Hanover) paid no-fault first-party benefits following an accident involving its insured and a vehicle owned by Cannon Express Corp. (hereinafter Cannon). Cannon’s headquarters are located in Arkansas, and it is self-insured. Hanover then submitted its subrogation claim against Cannon to mandatory arbitration pursuant to Insurance Law § 5105. Cannon failed to appear at the arbitration hearings, and awards were issued in Hanover’s favor. Hanover commenced this proceeding to confirm the awards, and Cannon cross-moved to vacate the awards. Contrary to Cannon’s contention, the Supreme Court had personal jurisdiction over it. The affidavit of service produced by Hanover was prima facie proof of proper service pursuant to CPLR 311 (a) (1) (see Rox Riv 83 Partners v Ettinger, 276 AD2d 782 [2000]), and Cannon failed to dispute the facts alleged in the affidavit (see Genway Corp. v Elgut, 177 AD2d 467 [1991]). However, the arbitration awards should have been vacated on the ground that the procedures set forth in CPLR article 75 were not followed (see CPLR 7511 [b] [2]; Matter of Nixon Taxi Corp., 128 AD2d 616 [1987]). The evidence established that Hanover was aware that Cannon’s attorney, whose office was located in Albany, New York, was handling this matter. However, the notice of intention to arbitrate was sent to Cannon’s headquarters in Arkansas, rather than to its local representative, as required by 11 NYCRR 65.10 (d) (2) (iii) (see Matter of Dandy Dan Taxi v Insurance Co. of State of Pa., 155 AD2d 458 [1989]). Moreover, there is no proof in the record that notice of the arbitration hearings was sent to Cannon or its representative by certified mail (see CPLR 7506 [b]; 11 NYCRR 65.10 [d] [3] [iii]; Matter of Oakland Jewish Ctr. v Isaacson, 179 AD2d 761 [1992]; cf. Matter of Eagle Ins. Co. [National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pa.], 202 AD2d 273 [1994]). Smith, J.P, Townes, Cozier and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a child support proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, the father appeals, as limited by his brief, from stated portions of an order of the Family Court, Suffolk County (Plosky, H. E.), entered July 9, 2002, which, upon a decision of the same court dated June 13, 2002, made after a hearing, inter alia, denied his petition for downward modification of his child support obligation and found that he willfully failed to obey an order of child support. The father’s objections to the order pursuant to Family Court Act § 439 (e) were denied by order of the Family Court, Suffolk County (Sweeney, J.), entered November I, 2002. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law and the facts, by deleting the second, third, fifth, and seventh decretal paragraphs thereof and adding thereto a provision granting the father’s petition for downward modification; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements, so much of the order entered November 1, 2002, as denied the objections to so much of the order entered July 9, 2002, as denied the petition for downward modification of the father’s child support obligation is vacated, and the matter is remitted to the Family Court, Suffolk County, for further proceedings in accordance herewith. The parties were divorced by judgment dated July 12, 2000. A stipulation settling their matrimonial action was incorporated, but not merged in the judgment. Pursuant to the stipulation, the father, who at the time had an annual income of approximately $132,000, agreed to pay child support in the sum of $538 per week for the parties’ three children. The weekly child support payment would increase to $641.50 upon termination of his maintenance payments to the mother. Either party could seek modification of the child support provisions in the stipulation based upon “a substantial change in financial circumstances.” In July 2001 the mother commenced an enforcement proceeding which resulted in an order dated August 14, 2001, continuing the father’s obligation to pay child support in the sum of $641.50 per week. The father’s employment as a reporter with WWOR-TV was terminated on October 26, 2001. He received severance pay in the net amount of $21,273.38 but did not make any child support payments. In November 2001 the mother commenced an enforcement proceeding seeking, inter alia, a finding that the father had willfully failed to obey the order of support. By petition dated December 17, 2001, the father sought downward modification of his child support obligation. At a hearing held in May and June 2002, the father testified that he received unemployment benefits in the sum of $445 per week for a period of six months. He also testified about the numerous efforts he made to secure employment. In April 2002 he obtained part-time employment with News 12 Long Island, earning approximately $21 per hour. His average income at the time was $500 per week. By order entered July 9, 2002, the Hearing Examiner, inter alia, found that the father willfully violated an order of support and dismissed his petition for downward modification. His objections to the order were subsequently denied. Loss of employment may constitute a change of circumstances warranting a downward modification of child support where a parent has diligently sought re-employment (see Reynolds v Reynolds, 300 AD2d 645 [2002]; Matter of Meyer v Meyer, 205 AD2d 784 [1994]). The evidence at the hearing demonstrated that the father’s employment was terminated through no fault of his own and that he diligently made a good-faith effort to obtain employment in his field. Consequently, the Hearing Examiner should have granted his petition for downward modification (see Matter of Morena v Morena, 267 AD2d 388 [1999]; Matter of Meyer v Meyer, supra; Matter of Glinski v Glinski, 199 AD2d 994 [1993]). Accordingly, we remit the matter to the Family Court, Suffolk County, for a further hearing regarding the parties’ financial circumstances and a determination of the father’s reduced obligation for child support. However, the evidence supports the Hearing Examiner’s finding that the father’s failure to pay child support was willful. He received severance pay of approximately $21,000 and yet made no child support payments and did not seek downward modification until the mother commenced an enforcement proceeding. Under the circumstances, the Hearing Examiner properly concluded that the father’s violation of the support order was willful and directed the entry of a money judgment (see Matter of Feliciano v Nielsen, 282 AD2d 783 [2001]; Matter of Modica v Thompson, 258 AD2d 653 [1999]; Family Ct Act § 454 [2] [a]). However, in light of our determination that the father was entitled to downward modification as of the date he made his application for such relief, we also remit the matter for a recalculation of arrears. As to the father’s contention that he was denied the effective assistance of counsel, in the context of civil litigation, a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel will not be entertained where, as here, extraordinary circumstances are absent (see Matter of Saren v Palma, 263 AD2d 544 [1999]). The father’s remaining contention is not properly before the Court on this appeal. Altman, J.P., Goldstein, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a support proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, the mother appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of an order of the Family Court, Suffolk County (Trainor, J.), entered November 8, 2002, as denied her objections to so much of an order of the same court (Plosky, H.E.), entered September 30, 2002, as denied that branch of her application which sought to have the father reimburse her for $1,098.36, representing 60% of child care expenses of $1,830.60 incurred between March 25, 2002, and August 2, 2002. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, and as a matter of discretion, with costs, the objections to so much of the order entered September 30, 2002, as denied that branch of the mother’s application which sought to have the father reimburse her for $1,098.36 are sustained, that branch of the application is granted, and the mother is granted leave to enter a judgment for $1,098.36. A stipulation entered into in open court, with the parties and their counsel present, is a binding contract (see Carroll v Carroll, 236 AD2d 353 [1997]; Blake v Blake, 229 AD2d 509 [1996]; Bellefleur v Gervais, 201 AD2d 523, 524 [1994]; Barzin v Barzin, 158 AD2d 769, 770 [1990]). Such a stipulation is enforceable as a contract, and a court cannot conform the agreement to what it thinks is proper if the parties have not assented to such reformation (see Blake v Blake, supra; Lazich v Vittoria & Parker, 196 AD2d 526 [1993]; Tinier v Tinier, 96 AD2d 556 [1983]). The hearing transcript establishes that the parties entered into an oral stipulation in open court whereby the father agreed to reimburse the mother for his pro rata share of certain child care expenses she incurred between March 25, 2002, and August 2, 2002. The father also stipulated that the documentation submitted by the mother was sufficient to establish the actual expenses she incurred during the relevant time period. Therefore, it was error for the Hearing Examiner to conclude that the mother was required to submit, inter alia, cancelled checks and notarized child care records to substantiate her claim for child care costs. Altman, J.E, Goldstein, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4 to terminate child support obligations, the father appeals from an order of the Family Court, Nassau County (Lawrence, J.), dated April 10, 2003, which, upon the denial of his application for leave to amend the petition, dismissed the proceeding. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The denial of the petitioner’s application for leave to amend the petition based upon alleged new facts occurring after the petition was filed was a provident exercise of discretion. Goldstein, J.E, Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, inter alia, to review a determination of the Village Manager of the Village of Pelham Manor dated August 10, 1998, which denied the petitioner benefits pursuant to General Municipal Law § 207-a, the appeal is from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Angiolillo, J.), entered May 11, 2001, which granted the petition and directed that the benefits be awarded. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. The petitioner’s union and the appellant Village of Pelham Manor entered into a collective bargaining agreement (hereinafter the CBA), which set forth certain procedures for injured firefighters to apply for General Municipal Law § 207-a benefits. The CBA also vested the Fire Chief with the exclusive authority to determine whether an injured firefighter was eligible for benefits, and set forth procedures for a firefighter to challenge an unfavorable determination or a subsequent termination of benefits. The appellants failed to abide by these procedures, leaving the petitioner with no means of redress under the CBA and depriving him of the due process to which he was entitled (see Matter of Uniform Firefighters of Cohoes, Local 2562, IAFF, AFL-CIO v City of Cohoes, 94 NY2d 686 [2000]; Local 589, Intl. Assn. of Fire Fighters, AFL-CIO v City of Newburgh, 116 AD2d 396, 398 [1986]). As it is undisputed that the petitioner was injured in the performance of his duties as a firefighter and that the appellants were notified of his injury and subsequent medical treatment, the petitioner is entitled to General Municipal Law § 207-a benefits. Altman, J.E, H. Miller, Adams and Townes, JJ., concur.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 in the nature of mandamus, inter alia, to compel the respondent to reinstate the complaint in an action entitled Miller v Radder, in the Supreme Court, Nassau County, under Index No. 8837/02. Adjudged that the petition is denied and the proceeding is dismissed, without costs or disbursements. The extraordinary remedy of mandamus will lie only to compel the performance of a ministerial act and only when there exists a clear legal right to the relief sought {see Matter of Legal Aid Socy. of Sullivan County v Scheinman, 53 NY2d 12, 16 [1981]). The petitioner has failed to demonstrate a clear legal right to the relief sought. Santucci, J.E, Friedmann, McGinity and Schmidt, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CFLR article 78 to review a determination of the respondent Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Huntington dated November 1, 2001, which, after a hearing, denied the petitioner’s application for a nonconforming use variance for a certain structure located on his property, the petitioner appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Emerson, J.), dated July 22, 2002, which denied the petition and dismissed the proceeding. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. Contrary to. the petitioner’s contention, the determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Huntington (hereinafter the Board) that he failed to meet his burden of establishing a preexisting nonconforming use of the subject property had a rational basis and is supported by substantial evidence {see Matter of Marx v Humenik, 302 AD2d 528 [2003]; Matter of Mc-Quade v Zoning Bd. of Appeals of Town of Huntington, 248 AD2d 386 [1998]). Accordingly, the Board’s determination was properly upheld by the Supreme Court {see Matter of Ifrah v Utschig, 98 NY2d 304 [2002]). Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CFLR 7503 (b) to temporarily stay arbitration of a claim for uninsured motorist benefits, Alina Gershovich, Ludmila Groysman, and Svetlana Lombard appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Ruchelsman, J.), dated December 16, 2002, as granted the petition to the extent of directing them to provide outstanding discovery. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, and so much of the petition as sought to direct the appellants to provide outstanding discovery is denied. The Supreme Court erred in directing the appellants to provide outstanding discovery. The petitioner had ample time prior to the commencement of the proceeding “within which to seek discovery of the . . . insured as provided for in the insurance policy and unjustifiably failed to utilize that opportunity” to obtain the discovery now sought (Matter of Interboro Mut. Indem. Ins. Co. v Pardon, 270 AD2d 266, 267 [2000]; Matter of Allstate Ins. Co. v Faulk, 250 AD2d 674 [1998]; Matter of Allstate Ins. Co. v Urena, 208 AD2d 623 [1994]). Santucci, J.E, Goldstein, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In a commercial summary holdover proceeding, the petitioner landlord appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Bonina, J.), dated December 26, 2002, which granted that branch of the motion of the tenant Le K Restaurant Corporation which was to dismiss the proceeding on the ground that the petitioner’s notice to cure was not a valid notice to cure. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, that branch of the motion which was to dismiss the proceeding on the ground that the petitioner’s notice to cure was not a valid notice to cure is denied, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Kings County, to determine the remaining branch of the tenant’s motion which was to dismiss the proceeding and for further proceedings consistent herewith. The petitioner landlord entered into a commercial lease with the tenant, Le K Restaurant Corporation (hereinafter the tenant). The landlord sought to evict the tenant, alleging that the tenant transferred possession of the demised premises to High Spirits, LLC, without its consent. The Supreme Court dismissed the proceeding on the ground that the landlord’s letter dated July 2, 2002, did not constitute a valid notice to cure. We reverse. The letter dated July 2, 2002, alleged that the tenant was in violation of article 49 of the lease which prohibited assignment of the lease, subletting, or transfer of possession or use by others without the consent of the landlord, on the ground that “High Spirits LLC is in possession of the space.” The letter specified that it was “the required twenty (20) day notice to cure default as required by Article 17 of the Lease” and unless the tenant cured the breach within the specified 20-day period, the landlord “shall be entitled to resort to the full battery of rights and remedies available under the Lease.” Article 17 of the lease permitted the landlord to serve a notice of cancellation of the lease in the event the tenant fails to comply with a 20-day notice to cure. Accordingly, the tenant was advised of the lease provisions in issue, the alleged violations of those provisions, the time allowed for compliance with the notice to cure, and the possible consequences of a failure to comply with the notice to cure. Under the circumstances, the contents of the letter satisfied the requirements of a notice to cure (see Cohn v White Oak Coop. Hous. Corp., 243 AD2d 440 [1997]; Filmtrucks, Inc. v Express Indus. & Term. Corp., 127 AD2d 509 [1987]; NL Indus. v PaineWebber, Inc., 720 F Supp 293 [1989]). The remaining branch of the tenant’s motion to dismiss remains pending and undecided and therefore is not before this Court (see Jakacic v Jakacic, 279 AD2d 551, 553 [2001]; Katz v Katz, 68 AD2d 536, 543 [1979]). We further note that the merits of the parties’ controversy is not before us and we express no opinion thereon. Santucci, J.E, S. Miller, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In a child support proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, the mother appeals from an order of the Family Court, Suffolk County (Blass, J.), entered January 8, 2003, which denied her objections to an order of the same court (Buetow, J.) entered November 7, 2002, which, after a hearing, inter alia, denied those branches of her petition which were for reimbursement of private secondary school tuition for the parties’ daughter and for child support during the time the father was paying for the full-time college tuition and expenses of the parties’ children. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The parties’ separation agreement, which is incorporated but not merged into the judgment of divorce dated August 2, 1993, is silent as to the parties’ obligation to pay for the children’s private secondary school tuition. With the enactment of Domestic Relations Law § 240 (1-b) (c) (7), a court may properly direct a parent to contribute to a child’s private education, even in the absence of special circumstances or a voluntary agreement of the parties (see Manno v Manno, 196 AD2d 488 [1993]). Here, the Family Court providently exercised its discretion in denying the mother’s request for reimbursement of private secondary school tuition for the parties’ daughter. It properly determined that the mother’s request was untimely and that, in any event, she had sufficient resources to pay for the one year of private secondary school tuition herself. The parties’ separation agreement provides that any payments made by the father for the educational expenses of the children shall be deemed child support. It is well settled that parties’ obligations as defined by their separation agreement, which is an independent contract, must be construed in accordance with the principles of contract interpretation (see Merl v Merl, 67 NY2d 359, 362 [1986]). Where, as here, the contract language is clear and unambiguous, the intent of the parties must be gleaned from the agreement without resort to extrinsic evidence (see Rainbow v Swisher, 72 NY2d 106, 109 [1988]). Thus, the Family Court properly denied the mother’s request for child support during the time the children are enrolled as full-time college students provided that the father pay their college tuition and expenses in accordance with the agreement. Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 to review a determination of the Hampton Bays Union Free School District, dated June 19, 2001, which terminated the petitioner’s probationary employment as a chorale music teacher, the appeal is from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Jones, J.), dated March 15, 2002, which granted the motion of the Hampton Bays Union Free School District pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7) to dismiss the petition for failure to state a cause of action. Ordered that on the Court’s own motion, the notice of appeal is treated as an application for leave to appeal, and leave to appeal is granted (see CPLR 5701 [c]); and it is further, Ordered that the order is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the respondent. It is well settled that a probationary employee may be discharged without a hearing and without a statement of reason in the absence of any demonstration that dismissal was for a constitutionally-impermissible purpose or in violation of statutory or decisional law (see Matter of York v McGuire, 63 NY2d 760, 761 [1984]; Matter of Green v Board of Educ. of City Dist. of N.Y., 262 AD2d 411 [1999]). “Judicial review of the determination to discharge a probationary employee is limited to an inquiry as to whether the termination was made in bad faith” (Matter of Johnson v Katz, 68 NY2d 649, 650 [1986]). The petitioner bears the burden of establishing such bad faith or illegal conduct by competent evidence rather than speculation (see Matter of Williams v Commissioner of Off. of Mental Health of State of N.Y., 259 AD2d 623 [1999]; Matter of Amnawah v Board of Educ. of City of N.Y., 266 AD2d 455 [1999]; Matter of Beacham v Brown, 215 AD2d 334 [1995]). The petitioner failed to show that she was terminated in bad faith. Contrary to the petitioner’s contention, evidence in the record supports the conclusion that she was properly notified pursuant to the terms of her collective bargaining agreement that her performance was substandard. The respondent’s contention that the collective bargaining agreement cannot be read to divest a school district of its statutory power under Education Law § 3012 has been raised for the first time on appeal and, therefore, is not properly before this Court (see Gomez v City of White Plains, 300 AD2d 282 [2002]). Smith, J.P, McGinity, H. Miller and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a child custody proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 6, the mother appeals, as limited by her brief, from (1) so much of an order of the Family Court, Queens County (Clark, J.), dated June 11, 2002, as, after a hearing, awarded permanent custody of the parties’ son Joseph to the father, and (2) so much of an order of the same court dated November 19, 2002, as, after a hearing, awarded permanent custody of the parties’ son Robert to the father. Ordered that the orders are reversed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements, and the matter is remitted to the Family Court, Queens County, for a new hearing and further proceedings consistent herewith; and it is further, Ordered that pending the hearing and new determination by the Family Court, Queens County, custody of the children shall remain with the father, and the mother shall have visitation as prescribed in the order dated June 11, 2002. On December 10, 2001, the mother indicated to the Family Court that she was dissatisfied with her assigned counsel and was retaining private counsel. On that same date, the Family Court, without objection, granted the application of the mother’s assigned counsel to be relieved as counsel. However, on January 2, 2002, the mother informed the Family Court that she could not afford to retain private counsel and that she did not wish to proceed pro se. The Family Court did not assign new counsel. The mother represented herself at the fact-finding hearing, conducted on May 8, 2002, and June 11, 2002, as to the father’s custody petition. After the hearing, the Family Court made a custody determination based primarily upon the recommendation of the court-appointed clinical psychologist. The Family Court, inter alia, awarded custody of the parties’ child Joseph to the father. The Family Court erred in declining to assign new counsel to represent the mother, and the mother was prejudiced by being compelled to proceed pro se. At the fact-finding hearing on May 8, 2002, and June 11, 2002, she was unable to effectively cross-examine the father and, most significantly, she was unable to challenge the report and testimony of the court-appointed clinical psychologist. She was also unable to present her own case in the most favorable light. Therefore, the order dated June 11, 2002, awarding the father custody of the parties’ son Joseph must be reversed (see Matter of Patricia L. v Steven L., 119 AD2d 221 [1986]; cf. Matter of Sasha S., 256 AD2d 468, 469 [1998]). Furthermore, although the mother was represented by assigned counsel regarding the father’s subsequent amended petition for custody of the parties’ child Robert, the Family Court based its determination of that amended petition on evidence presented at the fact-finding hearing held on May 8, 2002, and June 11, 2002. Accordingly, the Family Court’s November 19, 2002, order as to that child must be reversed. A new hearing must be held with respect to both children. Krausman, J.E, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a family offense proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 8, the appeal is from an order of the Family Court, Queens County (Clark, J.), dated March 11, 2003, which, after a hearing, dismissed the petition. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. Where, as here, the Family Court is confronted with an issue of credibility, its factual findings must be accorded great weight on appeal unless they are clearly unsupported by the record (see Matter of Topper v Topper, 271 AD2d 613 [2000]; see also Matter of Bryan S., 286 AD2d 685 [2001]; Matter of Toneatti v Schiavone, 266 AD2d 303 [1999]; Matter of Cutrone v Cutrone, 225 AD2d 767, 768 [1996]). We find no basis to disturb the Family Court’s determination. Krausman, J.E, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 to review a determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Babylon dated September 21, 2001, which, after a hearing, denied the petitioner’s application for area variances, the petitioner appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Burke, J.), entered June 4, 2002, which denied the petition and dismissed the proceeding. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. In determining whether to grant an area variance, a zoning board of appeals is required by Village Law § 7-712-b (3) to engage in a balancing test weighing the benefit to the applicant against the detriment to the health, safety, and welfare of the neighborhood or community if the variance is granted (see Matter of Sasso v Osgood, 86 NY2d 374 [1995]). The zoning board is also required to consider whether (1) an undesirable change will be produced in the character of the neighborhood, or a detriment to nearby properties will be created by the granting of the area variance, (2) the benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by some other method, other than an area variance, feasible for the applicant to pursue, (3) the required area variance is substantial, (4) the proposed variance will have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district, and (5) the alleged difficulty was self-created (see Village Law § 7-712-b [3]). Local zoning boards have broad discretion in considering applications for variances, and judicial review is limited to determining whether the action taken by the board was illegal, arbitrary, or an abuse of discretion (see Matter of Ifrah v Utschig, 98 NY2d 304, 308 [2002]; Matter of Fuhst v Foley, 45 NY2d 441, 444 [1978]). Thus, the determination of a zoning board should be sustained upon judicial review if it has a rational basis and is supported by substantial evidence (see Matter of Ifrah v Utschig, supra; Matter of Sasso v Osgood, supra). Under the circumstances of the instant case, the denial of the petitioner’s application by the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Babylon was supported by substantial evidence and was not arbitrary and capricious (see Matter of Inlet Homes Corp. v Zoning Bd. of Appeals of Town of Hempstead, 304 AD2d 758 [2003]; Collinwood Estates v Wright, 303 AD2d 679 [2003]; Matter of McNair v Board of Zoning Appeals of Town of Hempstead, 285 AD2d 553 [2001]; Matter of Strohli v Zoning Bd. of Appeals of Vil. of Montebello, 271 AD2d 612 [2000]). Santucci, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CELR article 75 to permanently stay arbitration of an uninsured motorist claim, the petitioner appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Thomas, J.), dated October 16, 2002, which denied the petition and dismissed the proceeding. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the petition is reinstated, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Queens County, for further proceedings in accordance herewith. On May 21, 2000, the respondent Keon Russell (hereinafter Keon) was involved in an accident with another vehicle while driving an automobile owned by a nonparty, Phillipia A. Authurs. The other vehicle was stolen and uninsured. Additionally, the uninsured motorist coverage on the automobile owned by Authurs was exhausted by payments to two of the passengers. Thereafter, Keon served a demand for arbitration claiming that he was entitled to uninsured motorist benefits under a policy issued to a nonparty, Esmie Robinson, by the petitioner, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (hereinafter State Farm). State Farm responded by commencing this proceeding to permanently stay the arbitration pursuant to CPLR article 75. In support of it is petition, it submitted, inter alia, the affidavit of one of its claims examiners. The claims examiner alleged, without stating any factual basis therefor, that Keon had no insurance coverage under any State Farm policy. In response, Keon submitted an answer as well as affidavits from himself, his father Donovan Russell (hereinafter Donovan), and Robinson, together with a copy of a paper captioned “Auto Renewal” which had apparently been sent by State Farm to Robinson. He contended that this evidence demonstrated that he was a family member residing with a named insured under the policy, namely Donovan. Keon did not allege that he lived with Robinson. The Supreme Court denied the petition and dismissed the proceeding on the papers presented. This was error. While the proof submitted by State Farm was insufficient to warrant judgment in its favor granting the stay, the proof submitted by Keon also failed to establish that Donovan was a named insured and thus that Keon, as a relative living with a named insured, was entitled to uninsured motorist coverage under the policy State Farm issued to Robinson. The affidavits by Robinson, the policyholder, and Donovan, Keon’s father, assert in conclusory terms that Donovan was a named insured under that policy. The paper captioned “Auto Renewal” and submitted by Keon did not state that Donovan was an additional insured, or even an additional driver under the policy. All it stated was that it was for informational purposes only and that Donovan was a licensed driver listed in the policy. This was insufficient to warrant a determination that the petition should have been dismissed, and in fact, actually created a factual question as to Donovan’s status, and perforce Keon’s status, as his status is directly dependent on Donovan’s status. Accordingly, upon being presented with these papers the Supreme Court should not have dismissed the petition. Rather, it should have directed a hearing on the issue of Donovan’s status (see CPLR 409, 410; Matter of Country-Wide Ins. Co. [Briones], 149 AD2d 313 [1989]; cf. Matter of People v Telehublink Corp., 301 AD2d 1006 [2003]; Matter of Friends World Coll. v Nicklin, 249 AD2d 393 [1998]; see also Alexander, Practice Commentaries, McKinney’s Cons Laws of NY, Book 7B, CPLR 409). Accordingly, we remit the matter to the Supreme Court, Queens County, for a hearing on the issue of Donovan’s status. A final determination by the Supreme Court on the petition is to be held in abeyance pending this determination. Altman, J.R, Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Proceeding pursuant to Executive Law § 298 to review (1) a determination of the respondent Commissioner of the New York State Division of Human Rights dated April 13, 2000, which, after a hearing, found that the petitioners unlawfully discriminated against Kimberly Sawyer and Kelly-Lynn Anderson on the terms and conditions of their employment and awarded Kimberly Sawyer $315,000 in compensatory damages and $39,000 in back pay and Kelly-Lynn Anderson $225,000 in compensatory damages and $13,000 in back pay, and (2) a determination of the Commissioner of the New York State Division of Human Rights dated November 6, 2001, which, after a compliance hearing, adjusted Kimberly Sawyer’s award for back pay to $34,754.20 and left the remaining awards undisturbed, and cross petition to enforce the determinations. Adjudged that the petition is denied, the determinations are confirmed, and the proceeding is dismissed; and it is further, Adjudged that the cross petition is granted and the petitioners are directed to pay Kimberly Sawyer $315,000 in compensatory damages and $34,754.20 in back pay, and Kelly-Lyiin Anderson $225,000 in compensatory damages and $13,000 in back pay, plus interest from April 13, 2000; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the respondent. On or about May 25, 2000, the petitioners commenced a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 to review a determination dated April 13, 2000, which found that the petitioners had unlawfully discriminated against Kimberly Sawyer and Kelly-Lynn Anderson and awarded those individuals back pay and compensatory damages. That proceeding was transferred to this Court by order dated July 13, 2000, but was dismissed on April 11, 2001, as abandoned. The petitioners commenced the instant proceeding to review both the determination dated April 13, 2000, and a determination dated November 6, 2001, which adjusted one of the awards in back pay. Judicial review of the determination dated April 13, 2000, is barred by the doctrine of res judicata, due to the dismissal of the petitioners’ prior proceeding for lack of prosecution, which acted as an adjudication on the merits of all issues that “could have been litigated had the [proceeding] been timely argued or submitted” (Matter of Stimpson Co. v Jorling, 161 AD2d 593, 594 [1990] [internal quotation marks omitted]). In any event, the determination of the respondent Commissioner of the New York State Division of Human Rights finding unlawful discrimination was supported by substantial evidence (see Executive Law § 296 [1] [a]; Matter of Fella v County of Rockland, 297 AD2d 813, 815 [2002]). Moreover, the awards of compensatory damages were reasonably related to the petitioners’ discriminatory conduct, were not punitive, and were a provident exercise of discretion (see Matter of Town of Hemp-stead v State Div. of Human Rights, 233 AD2d 451 [1996]; Sier v Jacobs Persinger & Parker, 276 AD2d 401 [2000]). Further, the evidence supported the awards of back pay. Santucci, J.E, S. Miller, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated May 1, 2000 (People v Branch, 272 AD2d 338 [2000]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered August 25, 1997. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Santucci, J.E, Smith, Friedmann and McGinity, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Reichbach, J.), rendered December 6, 2001, convicting him of murder in the second degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant contends that the trial court’s charge to the jury failed to properly relate the principles of justification to the facts of his case. This contention is unpreserved for appellate review since the defendant failed to request specific instructions or to object to the court’s charge as given (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Muhammed, 303 AD2d 424 [2003]; People v Hyc, 240 AD2d 431 [1997]; People v Samuels, 198 AD2d 384 [1993])- In any event, this contention is without merit because the charge, when viewed in its entirety, conveyed the proper legal standard for the defense of justification as it applied to the facts of this case (cf People v Morgan, 290 AD2d 566 [2002]; People v Lauderdale, 295 AD2d 539 [2002]; see also People v Reid, 176 AD2d 828 [1991]). Prudenti, P.J., Smith, Friedmann and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Feldman, J.), rendered April 1, 2002, convicting him of attempted murder in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. In order for a defendant to prevail on a CPL 330.30 motion for a new trial based upon newly-discovered evidence, it must appear, inter alia, that the newly-discovered evidence is of such a nature that a different verdict would probably occur, and such proof must not be cumulative or merely impeach or contradict evidence introduced at the trial (see People v Salemi, 309 NY 208, 216 [1955], cert denied 350 US 950 [1956]; People v Serrata, 261 AD2d 490 [1999]). Here, contrary to the defendant’s contention, the Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in denying the defendant’s motion, without a hearing, since the evidence preferred would serve only to impeach or contradict evidence adduced at trial (see People v Salemi, supra; People v Serrata, supra). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.E, Crane, Mastro and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Orange County (DeRosa, J.), rendered April 20, 2001, convicting him of rape in the first degree, assault in the second degree, and assault in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to sustain his conviction is not preserved for appellate review. In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution {see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence {see CEL 470.15 [5]). The sentence imposed was not excessive {see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contentions, including those raised in his supplemental pro se brief, either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Smith, J.E, Krausman, Mc-Ginity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Dutchess County, (Dolan, J.), rendered September 13, 2001, convicting him of criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted {see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). The defendant has not, nor could he have, raised any nonfrivolous issues in his supplemental pro se brief. Ritter, J.E, Smith, Friedmann, H. Miller and Crane, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Orange County (Berry, J.), rendered June 21, 2002, convicting him of rape in the first degree, sexual abuse in the first degree (two counts), unlawful imprisonment in the first degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree, sexual misconduct, and endangering the welfare of a child, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The record does not support the defendant’s claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. The defendant’s trial counsel rendered meaningful representation to him at all stages of the proceeding (see People v Henry, 95 NY2d 563 [2000]; People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 146 [1981]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). Altman, J.E, Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Starkey, J.), rendered February 2, 1999, convicting him of sodomy in the first degree, sexual abuse in the first degree (two counts), and unlawful imprisonment in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the jury, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84 [1903]). Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant’s contention that the trial court improvidently exercised its discretion in its Sandoval ruling (see People v Sandoval, 34 NY2d 371 [1974]) is without merit (see People v Walker, 83 NY2d 455 [1994]; People v Turner, 239 AD2d 447 [1997]; People v Moise, 199 AD2d 423 [1993]; People v Pegram, 191 AD2d 719 [1993]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are unpreserved for appellate review and, in any event, without merit. Ritter, J.E, Goldstein, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Roman, J.), rendered June 7, 2001, convicting him of robbery in the first degree and robbery in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620, 621 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. There were two eyewitnesses to, and a videotape of, the robbery committed by the defendant at gunpoint with the aid of two accomplices, one of whom was" also armed with a gun (see Penal Law §§ 160.10, 160.15). Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]; People v Sanders, 122 AD2d 86 [1986]). Krausman, J.E, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Hall, J.), rendered September 10, 2002, convicting him of murder in the second degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). Florio, J.E, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated February 26, 1996 (People v Jelinek, 224 AD2d 717 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 880 [1996], cert denied 519 US 900 [1996]), affirming a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County, rendered May 14, 1993. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). On this application, the appellant argues that his appellate counsel was ineffective for failing to raise a claim of ineffective assistance of trial counsel. Specifically, the appellant contends that his “standby counsel” at trial was ineffective for failing to preserve an issue that there was a material variance between the proof adduced at the trial and the allegations of the indictment with respect to certain counts charged therein which required reversal of the convictions on those counts, or to advise the appellant to move to dismiss those counts of the indictment. We note that in our decision and order dated February 26, 1996 (People v Jelinek, 224 AD2d 717 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 880 [1996], cert denied 519 US 900 [1996]), we indicated that certain of the appellant’s contentions were without merit or did not require reversal. Included among those contentions considered by this Court on the appeal was the appellant’s unpreserved claim that there was a material variance between the proof adduced at the trial and the allegations of the indictment which required reversal of the convictions on those counts of the indictment. That unpreserved claim was in fact raised by appellate counsel, briefed by the People, fully considered by this Court on the direct appeal in the exercise of our interest of justice jurisdiction, and found to be without merit (see People v DeSanto, 217 AD2d 636 [1995]; People v Brown, 196 AD2d 428 [1993]). Prudenti, PJ., Ritter, Santucci and Altman, JJ., concur.
Appeals by the defendant from (1) a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Pincus, J.), rendered October 31, 1995, convicting him of burglary in the first degree (two counts), robbery in the first degree, and robbery in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence, and (2) a judgment of the same court (Tomei, J.), rendered December 18, 1995, convicting him of burglary in the first degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgments are affirmed. The defendant failed to move within five days of his arraignment to dismiss the indictment on the ground that he was denied his right to testify before the grand jury. Therefore he waived his right to challenge the indictment (see People v Wade, 268 AD2d 448 [2000]; People v Crosby, 226 AD2d 472 [1996]). In any event, contrary to the defendant’s contention, the People are not required “to give notice regarding the expanded scope of the Grand Jury proceedings” (People v Guzman, 233 AD2d 527, 528 [1996] [internal quotation marks omitted]; People v Hernandez, 223 AD2d 351, 352 [1996]). “[0]nce the People have ‘notified the defendant that the charges in the felony complaint would be presented to the Grand Jury, the People [have] satisfied their statutory obligation’ ” (People v Guzman, supra at 528, quoting People v Choi, 210 AD2d 495, 496 [1994]). The People met their statutory obligation when they gave notice of the charges contained in the felony complaint (see People v Perez-Tavares, 238 AD2d 446, 447 [1997]; People v Crosby, supra). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contentions, including those raised in his supplemental pro se brief, are without merit. Santucci, J.P, Krausman, Schmidt and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (McKay, J.), rendered November 20, 2001, convicting him of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant was arrested after a “buy and bust” operation in which he and. a codefendant sold cocaine to an undercover police officer. The defendant’s request for a charge on the agency-defense was properly denied. There was no reasonable view of the evidence to support the theory that the defendant was acting solely as an agent of the undercover officer (see People v Herring, 83 NY2d 780, 782 [1994]; People v Blue, 294 AD2d 512, 513 [2002]; People v King, 283 AD2d 589, 590 [2001]; People v Alvarez, 235 AD2d 484, 484-485 [1997]). The defendant’s remaining contention is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Rosario, 195 AD2d 577 [1993]), and, in any event, does not require reversal. Ritter, J.P, Goldstein, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Mullen, J.), rendered November 24, 1999, convicting him of attempted robbery in the first degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). The defendant has not, nor could he have, raised any nonfrivolous issues in his supplemental pro se brief. Florio, J.P, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (West, J.), rendered May 24, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the first degree (two counts), robbery in the second degree, burglary in the second degree (two counts), and attempted robbery in the first degree (two counts), upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his guilt is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10 [1995]; People v Udzinski, 146 AD2d 245 [1989]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86, 88 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). Smith, J.E, McGinity, H. Miller and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Application by appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated April 1, 1996 (People v Mieles, 226 AD2d 397 [1996]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered April 1, 1992. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that -he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, EJ., Santucci, Florio and Krausman, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County (Kowtna, J.), rendered March 30, 1999, convicting him of driving while intoxicated and aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. The appeal brings up for review the denial, after a hearing (Honorof, J.), of those branches of the defendant’s omnibus motion which were to suppress his statements to the police and the results of his field sobriety test. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant contends that he was denied the effective assistance of counsel at trial and sentencing. Since many of the claimed deficiencies are based on matter dehors the record, they are not reviewable on direct appeal from the judgment (see People v Robinson, 122 AD2d 173 [1986]; People v Wolcott, 111 AD2d 943 [1985]). To the extent that the claims of ineffective assistance of counsel can be reviewed, however, the record reveals that defense counsel’s performance met the standard of meaningful representation (see People v Rivera, 71 NY2d 705 [1988]; People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137 [1981]). The defendant’s contention that the results of the field sobriety tests should have been suppressed because the arresting officer failed to advise him of his Miranda rights (see Miranda v Arizona, 384 US 436 [1966]) was not preserved for appellate review, as he failed to raise this specific issue at the hearing (see CPL 470.05 [2]). In any event, a temporary roadside detention pursuant to a routine traffic stop is not custodial within the meaning of Miranda (see People v Hasenflue, 252 AD2d 829 [1998]; People v Mathis, 136 AD2d 746 [1988]). Moreover, Miranda warnings are not required before the administration of performance tests (see People v Hager, 69 NY2d 141 [1987]). Suppression of the defendant’s statements to the police was properly denied (see People v Fiorello, 140 AD2d 708 [1988]). Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the jury, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). The jury’s determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless it is clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86, 88 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.P., Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Grosso, J.), rendered October 2, 2001, convicting him of an attempted course of sexual conduct against a child in the second degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant was charged with engaging in a course of sexual conduct against a child in the second degree (see Penal Law § 130.80) based upon the claims of the victim, corroborated by medical evidence. He pleaded guilty to an attempted course of sexual conduct against a child in the second degree pursuant to a negotiated plea agreement whereby he agreed to comply with conditions imposed by the Family Court and to register as a sex offender pursuant to Correction Law article 6-C. At the plea proceeding, he freely acknowledged his guilt and demonstrated his proficiency in the use of English without the aid of an interpreter (see People v Prekuli, 256 AD2d 77, 78 [1998]). The Supreme Court properly denied the defendant’s motions to withdraw his plea of guilty without a hearing. The defendant’s claim that he was unaware that he would be obligated to comply with conditions imposed by the Family Court and had only a rudimentary knowledge of English was belied by the record. His claim that the charges against him were founded upon legally insufficient evidence was foreclosed by his plea of guilty (see People v Thomas, 53 NY2d 338 [1981]) and, in any event, is without merit (see CPL 60.20 [2], [3]). Further, the alleged recantation by the victim did not warrant a hearing in light of the defendant’s admission of guilt during the plea proceeding (see People v Sides, 242 AD2d 750, 751 [1997]; cf. People v De Jesus, 199 AD2d 529, 530 [1993]), medical evidence corroborating that the crime in fact occurred, evidence presented in the defendant’s own motion papers that the victim’s mother had been pressured to drop the charges, and the victim’s recantation of her recantation. Altman, J.P., Goldstein, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Rockland County (Kelly, J.), rendered April 18, 2000. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Appellate review of the issue raised by the defendant was effectively waived by him as part of his plea agreement. Accordingly, the judgment of conviction is affirmed (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733 [1998]; People v Seaberg, 74 NY2d 1 [1989]; People v Kazepis, 101 AD2d 816 [1984]). Ritter, J.E, Smith, Friedmann, H. Miller and Crane, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Collini, J.), rendered November 28, 2001, convicting him of burglary in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in making its Sandoval ruling (see People v Sandoval, 34 NY2d 371 [1974]; People v Mitchell, 298 AD2d 602 [2002]; People v Hegdal, 266 AD2d 472, 473 [1999]; People v Wilder, 253 AD2d 472 [1998]). The defendant’s constitutional challenge to his adjudication as a persistent violent felony offender is unpreserved for appellate review and, in any event, is without merit (see People v Rosen, 96 NY2d 329, 335 [2001], cert denied 534 US 899 [2001]; People v Messer, 305 AD2d 260, 261 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 584 [2003]; People v Lebron, 293 AD2d 689, 690 [2002]; People v Rice, 285 AD2d 617 [2001]). Altman, J.E, Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated March 24, 2003 (People v Rishton, 303 AD2d 692 [2003], Iv denied 100 NY2d 542), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered February 20, 2001. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Santucci, J.E, Smith, Luciano and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeals by the defendant from (1) a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County (Cacciabaudo, J.), rendered September 12, 2000, convicting him of the use of a child in a sexual performance and endangering the welfare of a child, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence, and (2) a resentence of the same court imposed November 20, 2000. Ordered that the judgment and resentence are affirmed. The defendant argues that his conviction must be reversed because his plea allocution to the crime of use of a child in a sexual performance was insufficient. The defendant did not move to withdraw the plea on this ground prior to the imposition of sentence or to vacate the judgment pursuant to CPL 440.10. Therefore, he has not preserved for appellate review the issue of the sufficiency of the plea allocution (see People v Mackey, 77 NY2d 846 [1991]; People v Brown, 242 AD2d 337 [1997]; People v Moyd, 193 AD2d 763 [1993]). In any event, the defendant’s recital of the circumstances of the commission of the crime sufficiently established the elements of use of a child in a sexual performance (see Penal Law § 263.05; People v Horner, 300 AD2d 841 [2002]; United States v Dost, 636 F Supp 828 [1986], affd 813 F2d 1231 [1987]). Furthermore, the County Court had the inherent power to resentence the defendant to correct the illegal sentence it had previously imposed (see People v DeValle, 94 NY2d 870, 871-872 [2000]). In view of the court’s statement during the original sentencing that the defendant faced a minimum of 5 years and a maximum of 15 years, the defendant’s resentence to SVa to 11 years fell well within his bargained-for expectation (see People v Williams, 87 NY2d 1014, 1015 [1996]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Altman, J.P, Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County (Ohlig, J.), rendered April 4, 2000, convicting him of manslaughter in the second degree (three counts), operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol (two counts), overtaking on the right, failing to stay in a designated lane, following too closely, driving on the shoulder or slope of the roadway, failing to signal a turn, and speeding, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt of manslaughter in the second degree beyond a reasonable doubt. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the Supreme Court properly declined to suppress the evidence of his refusal to submit to a blood test, since there was ample evidence before the court to support the conclusion that the defendant was given clear and unequivocal warning of the effect of his refusal to submit to the blood test, and that he persisted in his refusal to take it (see Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1194 [2] [b], [f]; People v Cragg, 71 NY2d 926 [1988]; People v Cousar, 226 AD2d 740 [1996]). The Supreme Court improperly admitted into evidence portraits of the victims taken before the date of the accident, as their appearance was not relevant to any issue at trial. However, we conclude that this error was not so prejudicial as to require a new trial and should be deemed harmless in light of the overwhelming evidence of the defendant’s guilt presented at trial (see People v Stevens, 76 NY2d 833, 836 [1990]; People v Crimmins, 36 NY2d 230 [1975]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (West, J.), rendered September 14, 2000, convicting him of assault in the first degree (two counts), criminal use of a firearm in the first degree, and reckless endangerment in the first degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. The appeal brings up for review the denial, after a hearing of that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was to suppress physical evidence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the pretrial identification procedures were not unduly suggestive (see People v Chipp, 75 NY2d 327 [1990], cert denied 498 US 833 [1990]). In addition, the issue of whether the defendant was deprived of his right to confrontation when a witness invoked the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination regarding affiliation with a gang is unpreserved for appellate review. In any event, the defendant’s contention is without merit, as the witness’s bias or interest was fully explored through other means (see People v Chin, 67 NY2d 22 [1986]). The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his guilt is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10 [1995]; People v Udzinski, 146 AD2d 245 [1989]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). Smith, J.P, McGinity, H. Miller and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Buchter, J.), rendered November 27, 2001, convicting him of rape in the first degree and burglary in the first degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, he was afforded the effective assistance of counsel (see People v Benevento, 91 NY2d 708 [1998]; People v Anderson, 305 AD2d 611 [2003], Iv denied 100 NY2d 578 [2003]; People v Kessler, 176 AD2d 1202 [1991]; People v Keller, 175 AD2d 312 [1991]). Altman, J.P, H. Miller, Adams and Townes, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Rockland County (Kelly, J), rendered October 22, 1999, convicting him of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree (three counts) and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree (three counts), upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant’s remaining contentions, including those raised in his supplemental pro se brief, either are not properly before this Court, unpreserved for appellate review, or without merit. Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated June 3, 1996 (People v Walls, 228 AD2d 456 [1996]), affirming a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County, rendered May 14, 1990. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Frudenti, EJ., Ritter, Santucci and Florio, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Feldman, J.), rendered June 27, 2001, convicting him of murder in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant’s remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Ritter, J.E, Goldstein, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Orange County (DeRosa, J.), rendered October 1, 2001, convicting him of assault in the first degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to prove his identity as the perpetrator of the crimes charged beyond a reasonable doubt is riot preserved for appellate review, as he did not raise this argument in the trial court in support of his motion to dismiss {see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Rivera, 275 AD2d 802 [2000]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution {see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s identity beyond a reasonable doubt. The complainant had an opportunity to observe the defendant, whom he knew for a decade, at close range immediately before the incident, which occurred in a well-lit area {see People v Rivera, supra). Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant’s remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review, without merit, or do not warrant reversal. Krausman, J.P, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for negligence in the procurement of insurance coverage, the defendant appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Rosenberg, J.), dated December 10, 2002, which denied his motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. There are issues of fact requiring the denial of summary judgment. Smith, J.E, Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendants Stephen M. Babinsky and Neda Babinsky appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Burke, J.), dated February 25, 2003, which denied their motion, inter alia, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the appellants, and the action against the remaining defendants is severed. The appellants and the plaintiffs are neighbors. The appellants hired the codefendants Merwin Still and M. Still Equipment Corporation (hereinafter the Still defendants) as independent contractors to repair the driveway of their single-family residence. On June 11, 2002, when the appellants were not at home, the Still defendants’ truck rolled down the street into the plaintiffs’ house, allegedly causing the plaintiffs to sustain physical injuries. The plaintiffs commenced the instant action against the Still defendants and the appellants; The appellants moved for summary judgment based upon their affidavits stating that they did not direct or control the repair work being done to the driveway on their property and did not own or operate the truck in question. The plaintiffs, in opposition, submitted an attorney’s affirmation stating that “the nature of the terrain” of the appellants’ property contributed to the accident. The Supreme Court denied the motion, stating, among other things, that the “matter [was] not ripe for summary judgment as discovery [was] not complete.” We reverse. The appellants were entitled to summary judgment based upon their affidavits in admissible form establishing that they exercised no supervisory control over Still’s work (see Kleeman v Rheingold, 81 NY2d 270, 273-274 [1993]; Lombardi v Stout, 80 NY2d 290, 295 [1992]; Metling v Punia & Marx, 303 AD2d 386, 387-388 [2003]; Backiel v Citibank, 299 AD2d 504 [2002]; Whelan v Whelan, 231 AD2d 712, 713 [1996]). In opposition to the motion, the plaintiffs failed to establish the existence of a triable issue of fact. Summary judgment may be granted prior to discovery where there is “only hope and speculation as to what additional discovery would uncover” (Rodgers v Yale Univ., 283 AD2d 415, 416 [2001]). Ritter, J.E, S. Miller, Goldstein and Townes, JJ., concur.
In an action for a judgment declaring that the defendant Allstate Insurance Company is obligated to defend and/or indemnify the defendants County Wide Realty Equities, Ltd., and James De Luise in an underlying personal injury action entitled Briggs v County Wide Realty Equities, pending in the Supreme Court, Westchester County, under Index No. 120038/96, the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Barone, J.), entered August 26, 2002, which denied their motion, inter alia, for summary judgment and granted the cross motion of the defendant Allstate Insurance Company for summary judgment. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, for the entry of a judgment declaring that the defendant Allstate Insurance Company is not obligated to defend and/or indemnify the defendants County Wide Realty Equities, Ltd., and James De Luise in the underlying personal injury action. The defendant Allstate Insurance Company (hereinafter Allstate) demonstrated prima facie that it was not obligated to defend and/or indemnify the defendants County Wide Realty Equities, Ltd. (hereinafter County Wide) and James De Luise (hereinafter De Luise) pursuant to an insurance policy that purportedly covered certain residential property owned by County Wide. Adlstate issued the insurance policy to the prior owners of the property, Ronald Margaglio and Kathleen Margaglio, and it was unaware that the Margaglios transferred the property to County Wide or De Luise. Accordingly, under the clear and unambiguous terms of the insurance policy, the Margaglios possessed the only insurable interest with respect to the property (see Government Empls. Ins. Co. v Kligler, 42 NY2d 863 [1977]; Raino v Navigators Ins. Co., 268 AD2d 419 [2000]; Truncali v Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co., 208 AD2d 826 [1994]; Matter of Metropolitan Prop. & Liab. Co. v Feduchka, 135 AD2d 715 [1987]; see also Klapan v Dryden Mut. Ins. Co., 267 AD2d 1010 [1999]; Pascal v Nova Cas. Co., 226 AD2d 688 [1996]). In opposition to Allstate’s cross motion for summary judgment, the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]). The plaintiffs failed to produce any evidence to demonstrate that Allstate waived its right to disclaim coverage to County Wide or De Luise by knowingly accepting premium payments from them (cf. Scalia v Equitable Life Assur. Socy. of U.S., 251 AD2d 315 [1998]; Hydell v North Atl. Life Ins. Co., 246 AD2d 511 [1998]; Continental Ins. Co. v Helmsley Enters., 211 AD2d 589 [1995]). In addition, the plaintiffs failed to demonstrate that the Supreme Court should have granted that branch of its motion which was to strike Allstate’s answer pursuant to CPLR 3126. The plaintiffs failed to satisfy their burden of proving that Allstate willfully and contumaciously withheld documents and defied a discovery order (see Patterson v New York City Health & Hosps. Corp., 284 AD2d 516 [2001]; Vancott v Great Atl. & Pac. Tea Co., 271 AD2d 438 [2000]; Parish Constr. Corp. v Franlo Tile, 215 AD2d 545 [1995]). Since this is an action for a declaratory judgment, the matter must be remitted to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, for the entry of a judgment declaring that Allstate was not obligated to defend and/or indemnify County Wide and De Luise in the underlying personal injury action (see Lanza v Wagner, 11 NY2d 317, 334 [1962], appeal dismissed 371 US 74 [1962], cert denied 371 US 901 [1962]). Ritter, J.P., Florio, S. Miller and Luciano, JJ., concur.
In a class action, inter alia, for a judgment declaring that certain membership campground contracts are void and unenforceable as contrary to public policy pursuant to General Business Law § 659, the plaintiffs appeal from (1) an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Polizzi, J.), dated August 13, 2002, which granted the motion of the defendants Rank America, Inc., Resorts USA, Inc., and Outdoor World Corporation pursuant to CPLR 904, 907 and 3126 for a protective order and denied their cross motion, among other things, to strike the answer of those defendants, and (2) so much of an order of the same court dated May 12, 2003, as denied their motion pursuant to CPLR 903 to define the certified class. Ordered that the order dated May 12, 2003, is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, without costs or disbursements, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Queens County, for entry of an order pursuant to CPLR 903; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated August 13, 2002, is modified by deleting the provision thereof granting the respondents’ motion for a protective order; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Queens County, for reconsideration of the motion in light of the entry of the order pursuant to CPLR 903. This action, which was commenced in 1998, has been the subject of prior appeals. As a result of one of those appeals, in a decision and order dated June 5, 2000, this Court reversed an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County, and granted the plaintiffs motion for class action certification pursuant to CPLR article 9, stating that “[t]he appellants have demonstrated that a class action is a superior method for securing redress for all New York State residents who may have been aggrieved by the respondents’ conduct” (Meachum v Outdoor World Corp., 273 AD2d 209 [2000]). On December 9, 2002, that the plaintiffs moved for leave to enter an order pursuant to CPLR 903. This statute provides: “The order permitting a class action shall describe the class. When appropriate the court may limit the class to those members who do not request exclusion from the class within a specified time after notice.” The Supreme Court improperly denied the motion. The “order” referred to in CPLR 903 is the same one described in CPLR 902 which allows a class action to proceed. The entry of such an order should have occurred when the case was returned to the Supreme Court following this Court’s decision and order dated June 5, 2000, granting class certification. To reach the decision that the class should be certified, this Court was required to consider all the factors set out in CPLR 901 and 902 and conclude that the class described and the claims alleged satisfied the criteria for certification. In its order pursuant to CPLR 903 describing the class, the Supreme Court shall use the following modified version of the definition provided by the plaintiff in its amended complaint: “26. The Class is comprised of all persons who [claim to have been] lured into purchasing campground membership contracts from defendants based upon advertising, marketing and/or sales presentations within the State of New York, during the period commencing from the date of the applicable statute of limitations and terminating with entry of judgment herein.” The Supreme Court should determine the applicable statute of limitations. This determination is consistent with our prior decision (see Colbert v Rank Am., 295 AD2d 302 [2002]), holding that no later events have occurred that would warrant decertifying the class. In light of our determination, the Supreme Court’s order dated August 13, 2002, must be modified to deny the defendants’ motion for a protective order, and the matter remitted to the Supreme Court, Queens County, for proceedings relating to discovery consistent herewith. Goldstein, J.E, Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendant appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Rockland County (Nelson, J.), dated August 6, 2002, which, upon a jury verdict on the issue of liability finding it 65% at fault in the happening of the accident and the injured plaintiff Michael Daubert 35% at fault, and upon the denial of its motion pursuant to CFLR 4404 (a) to set aside the verdict and for judgment in its favor as a matter of law, is in favor of the plaintiffs and against it. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the complaint is dismissed. The injured plaintiff, Michael Daubert (hereinafter the plaintiff), was a personal chauffeur of Salvatore Franco, owner of Sealman’s Enterprise, which was one of the shareholders of the defendant, Flyte Time Regency Limousine, a limousine and transportation company (hereinafter Flyte Time). Flyte Time gave one of its used, leased limousines to Franco for his personal use and Franco, in his individual capacity, employed the plaintiff as his driver. The plaintiff subsequently developed back-related injuries, and he and his wife, derivatively, commenced this action against Flyte Time. The complaint alleged that the limousine provided by Flyte Time caused the plaintiff to develop back injuries because the driver’s seat of the subject vehicle was worn out and inadequately padded, having a concave, bowl-like shape. The liability phase of this bifurcated trial resulted in a jury verdict allocating 65% of fault to Flyte Time and 35% to the plaintiff. Flyte Time moved to set aside the verdict and for judgment in its favor as a matter of law. That motion was denied and judgment was entered accordingly. Flyte Time contends, inter alia, that it did not owe a duty to the plaintiff. “A finding of negligence may be based only upon the breach of a duty. If, in connection with the acts complained of, the defendant owes no duty to the plaintiff, the action must fail. Although juries determine whether and to what extent a particular duty was breached, it is for the courts first to determine whether any duty exists (see, Hamilton v Beretta U.S.A. Corp., 96 NY2d 222 [2001]; Waters v New York City Hous. Auth., 69 NY2d 225, 229 [1987]). In so doing, courts identify what people may reasonably expect of one another. In assessing the scope and consequences of civil responsibility, they define the boundaries of ‘duty’ to comport with what is socially, culturally and economically acceptable (see, Pulka v Edelman, 40 NY2d 781, 785-786 [1976]; Tobin v Grossman, 24 NY2d 609, 619 [1969]).” (Darby v Compagnie Natl. Air France, 96 NY2d 343, 347 [2001]; see Egan v Omniflight Helicopters, 224 AD2d 653 [1996]; Ocera v Zito, 212 AD2d 681 [1995].) Under the circumstances of this case, the trial court should have granted Flyte Time’s motion since the plaintiff failed to establish that Flyte Time owed him a duty to maintain the seat of the subject limousine in an ergonomically-fit condition. In light of the above, we need not reach Flyte Time’s remaining contentions. Altman, J.E, Goldstein, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Rockland County (Weiner, J.), dated October 7, 2002, which granted the motion of the defendants Matthew Carioscia and Elaine R. Carioscia to vacate a judgment of the same court dated April 9, 2002, entered upon their default in appearing or answering. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law and as a matter of discretion, with costs, the motion is denied, and the judgment is reinstated. A defendant seeking to vacate a default judgment pursuant to CPLR 5015 (a) (1) must demonstrate both a reasonable excuse for the default and the existence of a meritorious defense (see Kaplinsky v Mazor, 307 AD2d 916 [2003]; O’Leary v Noutsis, 303 AD2d 664 [2003]; Silverman v Deutsch, 283 AD2d 478 [2001]). Here, the respondents failed to offer a reasonable excuse to adequately explain their 16-month delay in appearing in this action (see East End Christian Academy v Long Is. Kitchens, 304 AD2d 523 [2003]; see also Neuman v Greenblatt, 260 AD2d 616 [1999]; Smith v Fritz, 148 AD2d 438 [1989]; Zolov v Donovan, 138 AD2d 484 [1988]). Moreover, the respondents failed to demonstrate the existence of a meritorious defense to this action (see Labor Law § 240 [1]; Joblon v Solow, 91 NY2d 457 [1998]; Gordon v Eastern Ry. Supply, 82 NY2d 555 [1993]; Cuddon v Olympic Bd. of Mgrs., 300 AD2d 616 [2002]). We further note that the claim of Elaine R. Carioscia that she had no knowledge of the commencement of the action until after the entry of the default judgment does not warrant relief pursuant to CPLR 317 because it is insufficient to rebut the presumption of proper service created by the affidavit of service (see 96 Pierrepont v Mauro, 304 AD2d 631 [2003]; De La Barrera v Handler, 290 AD2d 476 [2002]; Silverman v Deutsch, supra). Under these circumstances, the Supreme Court improvidently exercised its discretion in granting the motion to vacate. Florio, J.P, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to permanently enjoin the defendants from operating certain premises in any manner other than a restaurant, the appeal is from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Emerson, J.), dated December 2, 2002, which, after a hearing, granted the plaintiffs motion for a preliminary injunction. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The Supreme Court properly weighed the relevant factors in granting the motion of the plaintiff, Incorporated Village of Sag Harbor, for a preliminary injunction enjoining the use of the appellants’ premises in any manner other than a restaurant in violation of the Village’s zoning code (see Village Code of Village of Sag Harbor § 55-2.2; Village Law § 7-714; Village of Chestnut Ridge v Roffino, 306 AD2d 522 [2003]; cf. Town of Smithtown v Carlson, 204 AD2d 537 [1994]; see also Matter of Rudolf Steiner Fellowship Found. v De Luccia, 90 NY2d 453, 458 [1997]; Incorporated Vil. of Old Westbury v Alljay Farms, 100 AD2d 574 [1984], mod on other grounds 64 NY2d 798 [1985]). Smith, J.P., Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ, concur.
In related actions to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendants in Action No. 2, Chase Manhattan Automotive Finance Corporation, Joanna Delecce, Tylieka Dañar, and First Union Auto Finance, Inc., separately appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Joseph, J.), entered January 31, 2003, which denied the respective motions of the defendant Joanna Delecce, and the defendants Tylieka Dañar and Chase Manhattan Automotive Finance Corporation, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them on the ground that the plaintiff Robert Glanzrock did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the appeal by the defendant First Union Auto Finance, Inc., is dismissed on the ground that it is not aggrieved by the order appealed from (see CPLR 5511; QDR Consultants & Dev. Corp. v Colonia Ins. Co., 251 AD2d 641 [1998]); and it is further, Ordered that the order is reversed on the appeals by Chase Manhattan Automotive Finance Corporation, Joanna Delecce, and Tylieka Dañar, on the law, the motions are granted, upon searching the record, summary judgment is granted to the defendant First Union Auto Finance, Inc., and the complaint in Action No. 2 is dismissed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the defendants Chase Manhattan Automotive Finance Corporation, Joanna Delecce, and Tylieka Dañar. Joanna Delecce, Tylieka Dañar, and Chase Manhattan Automotive Finance Corporation, defendants in Action No. 2, made a prima facie showing that the plaintiff Robert M. Glanzrock did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) as a result of the subject motor vehicle accident (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345 [2002] ; Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955 [1992]; McCauley v Ross, 298 AD2d 506 [2002]). In opposition, the plaintiffs in that action failed to submit any medical proof in admissible form that was contemporaneous with the subject accident showing any initial range of motion restrictions in his spine (see Ifrach v Neiman, 306 AD2d 380 [2003]; Pajda v Pedone, 303 AD2d 729 [2003] ; Lanza v Carlick, 279 AD2d 613, 614 [2001]). Furthermore, the plaintiffs failed to submit any probative medical evidence regarding the nature and extent of any treatment (see Sambajon v Everett, 301 AD2d 510 [2003]; Crespo v Kramer, 295 AD2d 467 [2002]; Yaraghi v Zeller, 286 AD2d 765 [2001]). Although the defendant First Union Auto Finance, Inc., did not move for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it in Action No. 2, this Court has the authority pursuant to CPLR 3212 (b) to search the record and award summary judgment to a nonmoving party (see Merritt Hill Vineyards v Windy Hgts. Vineyard, 61 NY2d 106, 110-112 [1984]; QDR Consultants & Dev. Corp. v Colonia Ins. Co., supra) with respect to an issue that was the subject of the motions before the Supreme Court (see Dunham v Hilco Constr. Co., 89 NY2d 425, 429-430 [1996]). Florio, J.P., Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Dowd, J), dated December 11, 2002, which denied their motion for summary judgment on the issue of liability. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, and the motion is granted. In this case involving a motor vehicle accident at an intersection, the street on which the defendant was driving had a stop sign while the street on which the plaintiff Judy Klein (hereinafter the plaintiff) was driving did not. In support of her motion for summary judgment, the plaintiff established that the defendant failed to properly observe and yield to cross-traffic before proceeding into the intersection (see Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1142 [a]; § 1172 [a]; Disher v Ahern, 294 AD2d 393 [2002]; Puccio v Caputo, 272 AD2d 387 [2000]; Gillinder v Hemmes, 298 AD2d 493 [2002]). The plaintiff, who had the right-of-way; was entitled to assume that the defendant would obey the traffic laws requiring him to yield (see Stiles v County of Dutchess, 278 AD2d 304 [2000]; Cenovski v Lee, 266 AD2d 424 [1999]). The defendant’s contention that there is a triable issue of fact as to the plaintiffs negligence because she failed to sée that which by the proper use of her senses she should have seen is mere speculation, insufficient to defeat the motion (see Parisi v Mitchell, 280 AD2d 589 [2001]; Szczotka v Adler, 291 AD2d 444 [2002]). Accordingly, summary judgment should have been granted to the plaintiff. Santucci, J.E, Goldstein, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Motion by the appellant, in effect, for leave to renew and reargue appeals from nine orders of the Supreme Court, Westchester County, one dated January 17, 2002, one entered January 24, 2002, one entered March 11, 2002, and six' entered February 8, 2001, a judgment of the same court dated January 22, 2002, and an interlocutory judgment of the same court also dated January 22, 2002, which were determined by decision and order of this Court dated February 3, 2003 (see Klutchko v Baron, 302 AD2d 361 [2003]). Upon the papers filed in support of the motion and the papers filed in opposition thereto, it is Ordered that the motion is granted to the extent that the decision and order of this Court dated February 3, 2003, is recalled and vacated, and the following decision and order is substituted therefor, and the motion is otherwise denied: In an action for a divorce and ancillary relief, the plaintiff husband appeals (1), as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Shapiro, J.), entered January 24, 2002, as granted the defendant wife’s cross motion for partial summary judgment dismissing his application for a downward modification of pendente lite child support and maintenance, (2), as limited by his brief, from so much of a judgment of the same court dated January 22, 2002, as is in favor of the wife and against him in the sum of $391,000, representing arrears in maintenance and child support from December 1, 1997, through May 15, 2001, (3), as limited by his brief, from so much of an interlocutory judgment of the same court dated January 22, 2002, as barred him from seeking equitable distribution of the wife’s law license, declared that the law license had no value, and granted the divorce without prejudice to any equitable distribution of his medical license, (4) from an order of the same court dated January 17, 2002, entered on consent, appointing a forensic evaluator with the parties each to bear one half of the evaluator’s advance fee, (5) from an order of the same court, entered February 8, 2001, which granted, inter alia, that branch of the wife’s motion which was to hold him in contempt for his failure to pay pendente lite child support and other expenses and obligations to the extent of deferring the application to the time of trial, (6), as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the same court, also entered February 8, 2001, as precluded him from offering any evidence at trial relevant to his application for a downward modification of the existing pendente lite order, barred further depositions of the wife, and deemed discovery complete, (7) from an order of the same court, also entered February 8, 2001, which denied as academic the wife’s motion to appoint a special referee to oversee remaining depositions and related evidentiary matters, (8) from an order of the same court, also entered February 8, 2001, which denied his motion to stay enforcement of two income executions to enforce a judgment in the sum of $47,700 representing arrears in pendente lite child support and maintenance, (9) from an order of the same court, also entered February 8, 2001, which denied his motion to hold the wife’s- counsel in contempt and for summary judgment to vacate a judgment of the same court, dated October 17, 1995, arising from pendente lite arrears, (10) from an order of the same court, also entered February 8, 2001, which denied as academic his motion for supervision of disclosure, production of documents previously directed, and restraint of the wife from withdrawing retirement funds, and denied the wife’s cross motion for the imposition of sanctions against him, and (11), as limited by his brief, so much of an order of the same court entered March 11, 2002, as granted the wife’s motion for suspension of visitation and contact with the infant child, directing each party to pay $1,500 to the law guardian as a retainer and $5,000 to the forensic evaluator as a retainer, and provided that if he fails to pay, sole custody of the parties’ infant child shall remain with the wife, and denied his cross motion to discharge the law guardian and for custody of the parties’ infant child. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated January 17, 2002, is dismissed, as no appeal lies from an order entered on the consent of the parties (see Matter of Brouwer v Pacicca, 291 AD2d 448 [2002]); and it is further, Ordered that the appeal from the order entered February 8, 2001, which, inter alia, granted that branch of the wife’s motion which was to hold the husband in contempt for his failure to pay pendente lite child support and other expenses and obligations to the extent of deferring the application to the time of trial is dismissed as abandoned (see 22 NYCRR 670.8 [a]); and it is further, Ordered that the appeal from the order entered February 8, 2001, which denied as academic the wife’s motion to appoint a special referee to oversee the remaining depositions and related evidentiary matters is dismissed, as the husband is not aggrieved by this order (see CPLR 5511); and it is further, Ordered that the appeal from the order entered February 8, 2001, which denied the husband’s motion for a stay of enforcement of two income executions is dismissed as abandoned (see 22 NYCRR 670.8 [a]); and it is further, Ordered that the appeal from the order entered February 8, 2001, which denied the husband’s motion to hold the wife’s counsel in contempt and for summary judgment to vacate the judgment dated October 17, 1995, arising from pendente lite arrears is dismissed as abandoned (see 22 NYCRR 670.8 [a]); and it is further, Ordered that the appeal from so much of the order entered February 8, 2001, as denied the wife’s cross motion for the imposition of sanctions against the husband is dismissed on the ground that the husband is not aggrieved by that portion of the order (see CPLR 5511), and the appeal from the remaining portion of the order is dismissed as abandoned (see 22 NYCRR 670.8 [a]); and it is further, Ordered that the order entered January 24, 2002, is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, the wife’s cross motion for partial summary judgment dismissing the husband’s application for a downward modification of pendente lite child support and maintenance is denied, the husband’s application is reinstated and is referred to the trial judge for determination on the merits; and it is further, Ordered that the judgment dated January 22, 2002, is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, so much of the judgment as is in favor of the wife and against the husband in the sum of $391,000 is vacated, and the issue of the sum of the husband’s arrears in maintenance and child support is referred to the trial judge for determination; and it is further, Ordered that the interlocutory judgment dated January 22, 2002, is modified, by deleting the provision thereof barring the husband from seeking equitable distribution of the wife’s law license and declaring that it had no value, and the issue of the value of the wife’s law license is referred to the trial judge as part of the determination of equitable distribution; as so modified, the interlocutory judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed from; and it is further, Ordered that the order entered February 8, 2001, which, inter alia, precluded the husband from offering evidence at trial relating to his application for downward modification of pendente lite child support and maintenance is reversed insofar as appealed from, that branch of the wife’s motion which was to bar further depositions of her is denied, the provisions of the order precluding the husband from offering evidence at trial relating to his application for downward modification and deeming discovery complete are vacated, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, for the entry of an order scheduling the completion of disclosure; and it is further, Ordered that the order entered March 11, 2002, is modified, (1) by deleting the provision thereof granting that branch of the wife’s motion for suspension of the husband’s visitation and contact with the parties’ infant child, and substituting therefor a provision referring that branch of the wife’s motion for a hearing as hereinafter directed, and (2) by deleting the provisions thereof directing each party to pay the sum of $5,000 to the forensic evaluator and ordering that if the husband fails to pay, sole custody of the parties’ infant child shall remain with the wife; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from; and it is further, Ordered that within seven days after service by the husband upon the wife of a copy of this decision and order, the parties shall contact the Westchester County Department of Probation/ Family Unit to arrange for a forensic evaluation of the parties and the infant child; and it is further, Ordered that within 10 days after receipt of the report of the forensic evaluator, the Supreme Court, Westchester County, shall hold a hearing to determine (1) the truth of the allegations contained in the wife’s application to suspend visitation and contact between the husband and the parties’ infant child, and (2) the child’s best interests, and the custody and visitation provisions which will best serve those interests; and it is further, Ordered that pending the forensic evaluation, hearing, and determination, visitation is reinstated forthwith between the husband and the parties’ infant child as follows: alternate weekends, Saturday and Sunday, 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. each day, the husband to pick up and return the child to the wife’s residence, and every Wednesday evening, from 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the husband. The Supreme Court erred in deeming disclosure completed, precluding the husband from offering evidence at trial relevant to his motion for a downward modification of pendente lite child support and maintenance, previously referred to the trial judge by a justice of coordinate jurisdiction, and preventing the husband from obtaining any further disclosure. The imposition of such penalties was improvident as there is no showing that the husband’s failure to supply a stenographer at the wife’s continued deposition was wilful, deliberate, contumacious, or due to bad faith (see Vancott v Great Ml. & Pac. Tea Co., 271 AD2d 438 [2000]; Gorokhova v Belulovich, 267 AD2d 202, 203 [1999]). The husband’s failure to appear before the special referee with the nonparty witnesses was excusable, since it is undisputed that the special referee was appointed for the limited purpose of supervising disclosure only from the parties. The monetary sanctions imposed were sufficient penalties for the husband’s disclosure derelictions. Accordingly, we are vacating all provisions of the various orders appealed from that interfere with the application, previously referred to the trial court, for downward modification of pendente lite child support and maintenance, as well as so much of the judgment dated January 22, 2002, as fixed arrears under the original pendente lite order for a period subsequent to the order of Justice Nicolai dated October 5, 1995, referring the application for downward modification to the trial court. We do not disturb the October 17, 1995, judgment for arrears predating the husband’s application for downward modification. Furthermore, we are reviving the rights of the parties to complete disclosure. Therefore, we remit the matter to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, to fashion a scheduling order. The Supreme Court erred in suspending all visitation and telephone contact between the husband and the parties’ infant child based upon the husband’s failure to pay his share of the fees of the forensic evaluator and law guardian. The Supreme Court disregarded what should have been its first concern, “the welfare and the interests of the [child]” (Matter of Lincoln v Lincoln, 24 NY2d 270, 272 [1969]). “[A] noncustodial parent should have reasonable rights of visitation, and . . . the denial of those rights is so drastic it must be based upon substantial evidence that visitation would be detrimental to the welfare of the child” (Matter of Eric L. v Dorothy L., 130 AD2d 660, 660-661 [1987]; see Matter of Hughes v Wiegman, 150 AD2d 449 [1989]; Janousek v Janousek, 108 AD2d 782, 784 [1985]). The wife’s allegations here should not have resulted in the suspension of the husband’s visitation without a forensic evaluation followed by a hearing addressing, inter alia, the child’s best interests (see Matter of Bradley v Wright, 260 AD2d 477 [1999]; Pica v Pica, 96 AD2d 836, 837 [1983]; Kresnicka v Kresnicka, 48 AD2d 929 [1975]). In aid of such a hearing, as the Supreme Court recognized in appointing Dr. Herman, a forensic evaluation of the parties and their child is necessary (see Stern v Stern, 225 AD2d 540, 541 [1996]). However, it was error for the Supreme Court to require the husband, who is in bankruptcy, to pay one half of the fees and expenses of the forensic evaluator without first considering his “financial status” (Domestic Relations Law § 237 [d] [4]). Because the husband proclaims an inability to pay his share of the fees of this forensic evaluator, there has been a protracted impasse in obtaining an evaluation in aid of a custody and visitation determination. This impasse is contrary to the best interests of the child. Therefore, within seven days after service by the husband upon the wife of a copy of this decision and order, the parties shall contact the Westchester County Department of Probation/Family Unit to arrange for a forensic evaluation of the parties and the infant child. Such an evaluation was directed years ago by order of Justice Scarpino dated Juné 14, 1995. While the forensic evaluation and hearing are progressing, we are directing the restoration of limited visitation between the husband and the infant child on alternate weekends, Saturday and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. each day, and from 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. every Wednesday evening. Moreover, the Supreme Court improvidently precluded the husband from proving the value of the wife’s law license because he failed to serve expert notice (see CPLR 3101 [d]), and erred in opining that the license had no value because the wife had not practiced law in a number of years. This treatment was inconsistent with the way in which the Supreme Court treated the wife’s expert and the inclusion of the husband’s now-suspended medical license for equitable distribution. It also conflicted with the statute, which would include the wife’s law license for purposes of equitable distribution (see Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [1] [c]; [5]; O’Brien v O’Brien, 66 NY2d 576, 584 [1985]; Finocchio v Finocchio, 162 AD2d 1044, 1045 [1990]). Accordingly, we remit the matter to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, for further proceedings consistent herewith. The husband’s remaining contentions do not require further relief. Santucci, J.P, Krausman, Adams and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for attorney misconduct and notarial misconduct, the defendant Lynne S. Sobel appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Schmidt, J.), dated July 9, 2002, as denied that branch of her motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the amended complaint insofar as asserted against her, and the plaintiff separately appeals from so much of the same order as granted the separate motion of the defendant Michael A. Coscia to dismiss the first cause of action in the amended complaint insofar as asserted against him. Ordered that the order is modified by deleting the provision thereof denying that branch of the motion of the defendant Lynne S. Sobel which was for summary judgment dismissing the amended complaint insofar as asserted against her and substituting therefor a provision granting that branch of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, and the action against the remaining defendants is severed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the defendant Lynne S. Sobel. The Supreme Court properly granted summary judgment dismissing the plaintiffs first cause of action sounding in attorney misconduct against the defendant Michael A. Coscia on the ground that it is barred by the doctrine of collateral estoppel. It is well settled that the doctrine of collateral estoppel precludes a party from relitigating an issue which was previously decided against him or her in a proceeding in which he or she had a fair opportunity to fully litigate the issue (see Kaufman v Lilly & Co., 65 NY2d 449 [1985]). To invoke the doctrine, it must be shown that the identical issue must have been decided in the prior action and be decisive of the present action, and the party to be precluded from relitigating the issue must have had a full and fair opportunity to contest the prior determination (id.). The party seeking the benefit of collateral estoppel has the burden of demonstrating the identity of the issues in the present litigation and the prior determination, whereas the party attempting to defeat its application has the burden of establishing the absence of a full and fair opportunity to litigate the issue (id.). Coscia demonstrated that the issue of damages resulting from the alleged attorney misconduct was litigated in prior Family Court proceedings. In a prior Family Court proceeding, the plaintiff sought costs and sanctions against both Coscia and his law firm resulting from an allegedly frivolous contempt petition brought by Coscia and his law firm on behalf of the plaintiffs former wife. The Family Court found the contempt petition to be frivolous and imposed sanctions. Thereafter, the plaintiff moved again in the Family Court for costs and an award of an attorney’s fee. The Family Court denied that relief. In this action, the plaintiff again seeks to recover costs and an attorney’s fee resulting from the frivolous contempt petition. Based on these facts, the Supreme Court properly determined that the plaintiff is barred from seeking costs and an attorney’s fee since he previously sought this relief before the Family Court. However, the Supreme Court should have granted that branch of the motion of the defendant Lynne S. Sobel which was for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against her. There is no cause of action for notarial misconduct absent injury (see Amodei v New York State Chiropractic Assn., 160 AD2d 279 [1990]; Rastelli v Gassman, 231 AD2d 507 [1996]). A party moving for summary judgment must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, offering sufficient evidence to demonstrate the absence of a triable issue of fact (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]; Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557 [1980]). Sobel demonstrated the absence of a triable issue of fact. Therefore, the motion was sufficient to make out a prima facie case for summary judgment (see Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851 [1985]; Zuckerman v City of New York, supra). In opposition, the plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact. Prudenti, P.J., Smith, Friedmann and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of an oral agreement, the defendant James T. Smith, previously known as LL Cool J, appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Golar, J.), dated January 16, 2003, as denied his motion pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (5) and (7) to dismiss the amended complaint insofar as asserted against him, and, in effect, granted the plaintiffs cross application pursuant to CPLR 3211 (e) for leave to replead. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the cross application is denied, the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the appellant, and the action insofar as asserted against the remaining defendants is severed. Contrary to the Supreme Court’s determination, the amended complaint and the documents submitted in opposition to the motion to dismiss failed to set forth a legally cognizable cause of action based on an oral partnership/joint venture agreement (see Leon v Martinez, 84 NY2d 83 [1994]; Guggenheimer v Ginzburg, 43 NY2d 268, 275 [1977]; Rovello v Orofino Realty Co., 40 NY2d 633 [1976]). Viewing the facts as alleged in the record as true, and affording the plaintiff every favorable inference, the plaintiff failed to plead a mutual promise or undertaking to share the burden of the losses of the alleged enterprise, an indispensable element of a partnership or joint venture (see Matter of Steinbeck v Gerosa, 4 NY2d 302, 317 [1958]; Goodstein Props. v Pego, 266 AD2d 506, 507 [1999]; Davella v Nielsen, 208 AD2d 494 [1994]). Thus, the motion to dismiss the amended complaint should have been granted pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7). In addition, the Supreme Court improvidently exercised its discretion in granting the plaintiffs cross application for leave to replead pursuant to CPLR 3211 (e) as he did not set forth “good ground” to support his cause of action (Mehlman v Gold, 183 AD2d 634, 635 [1992]). Furthermore, inasmuch as the plaintiff did not assert a breach of contract cause of action, we have no occasion to consider the defendant’s arguments with respect thereto. The parties’ remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.R, Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendant Marina Sholosh appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (M. Garson, J.), dated August 20, 2002, as denied her motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against her. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the defendant Marina Sholosh. The plaintiff Celora Levy (hereinafter the plaintiff), allegedly sustained personal injuries when she tripped and fell on a “bump” in the sidewalk abutting a residential property owned and occupied by the defendant Marina Sholosh. The plaintiff and her husband commenced this action, alleging, inter alia, that Sholosh was negligent because she had made a “special use” of the sidewalk as a driveway. Sholosh moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against her. The Supreme Court, inter alia, denied Sholosh’s motion. We reverse. In support of her motion for summary judgment, Sholosh established a prima facie case of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]) by showing that she did not create the defective condition or cause the defect to occur because of some special use (see Gaynor v City of New York, 259 AD2d 733 [1999]). The plaintiffs deposition testimony and photographs show that the plaintiffs fall did not occur in the area of the sidewalk used to access Sholosh’s driveway. In opposition, the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact (see Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557 [1980]). Thus, the Supreme Court erred in denying Sholosh’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against her. Smith, J.P., McGinity, H. Miller and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants Kuen Tak Wong and Wai Lin Cheung appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Cohen-Aronin, J.), dated September 3, 2002, as denied their cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against them. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. There are issues of fact requiring the denial of summary judgment. Goldstein, J.E, Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Glover, J.), dated October 2, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion to preclude her from offering certain evidence at trial and to dismiss the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The plaintiff allegedly was injured when the top of a glass jar of salsa broke off as she attempted to replace the lid on the jar. Shortly thereafter, she retained an expert to inspect the jar. The expert concluded that the jar cracked and broke because it “was weak and could not sustain a vacuum at normal pressure.” More than one year after the inspection, the plaintiff commenced this action against the defendant, alleging negligence and strict products liability. With its answer, the defendant served a demand for a bill of particulars and various discovery demands, including a request for certain information concerning the jar. After numerous unsuccessful attempts to obtain the requested information and a copy of the label on the jar, the defendant moved to compel the plaintiff to provide the information and a photocopy of the label. That motion resulted in a stipulation in which the plaintiff agreed to supply the information and label by a date certain. The stipulation provided that if she did not do so, the defendant could move to preclude. When the plaintiff again failed to supply the information, the defendant moved to preclude her from offering evidence regarding the jar and to dismiss the complaint. In opposition to the motion, the plaintiff indicated that the jar was not in her possession, but did not explain what happened to it. The Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in precluding the plaintiff from offering evidence regarding the jar, a key piece of evidence crucial to the defense of this action (see Yi Min Ren v Professional Steam-Cleaning, 271 AD2d 602 [2000] ; see also Horace Mann Ins. Co. v E.T. Appliances, 290 AD2d 418 [2002]; Behrbom v Healthco Intl., 285 AD2d 573, 574 [2001] ). Contrary to the plaintiffs contention, a deposition of her expert would not be an adequate substitute for production of the requested discovery (see Thornhill v A.B. Volvo, 304 AD2d 651, 652 [2003]; Behrbom v Healthco Intl., supra). Since the plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case without the precluded evidence, the Supreme Court properly dismissed the complaint. Altman, J.P., Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Polizzi, J.), dated February 26, 2003, which denied their motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the complaint is dismissed. The defendants made a prima facie showing that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) as a result of the subject motor vehicle accident (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345 [2002]; Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955 [1992]). The affirmations of the plaintiffs physicians submitted in opposition to the defendants’ motion failed to establish that any of the identified limitations in movement were of a significant nature (see Trotter v Hart, 285 AD2d 772 [2001]; Williams v Ciaramella, 250 AD2d 763 [1998]; Cabri v Myung-Soo Park, 260 AD2d 525 [1999]; Waldman v Dong Kook Chang, 175 AD2d 204 [1991]; Medina v Zalmen Reis & Assoc., 239 AD2d 394 [1997]). Moreover, the plaintiff’s statement that he was unable to return to work for three months following the accident was not supported by any competent medical evidence that he was unable to perform substantially all of his daily activities for not less than 90 of the first 180 days as a result of the subject accident (see Sainte-Aime v Ho, 274 AD2d 569 [2000]; Jackson v New York City Tr. Auth., 273 AD2d 200 [2000]; Greene v Miranda, 272 AD2d 441 [2000]; Arshad v Gomer, 268 AD2d 450 [2000]; Bennett v Reed, 263 AD2d 800 [1999]; DiNunzio v County of Suffolk, 256 AD2d 498, 499 [1998]). Accordingly, the defendants were entitled to summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Altman, J.E, S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendant appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Joseph, J.), entered July 26, 2002, which granted the plaintiffs motion for leave to reargue, and upon reargument, vacated an order of the same court dated March 25, 2002, granting her motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and denied that motion. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, by deleting the provision thereof which, upon reargument, denied the motion for summary judgment and substituting therefor a provision adhering to the original determination granting the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed, with costs to the defendant. On June 26, 2000, the plaintiff tripped and fell over a piece of carpeting that had been placed in front of the door to his rented room for use as a doormat or runner. The runner was a remnant cut from carpeting which had been installed in the hallway of the premises before the plaintiff moved in, and was not secured to the carpet underneath. Following his accident, the plaintiff commenced this action against his landlord, alleging that the unsecured carpet remnant constituted a dangerous condition which she had negligently created. Although the Supreme Court initially granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, the court subsequently granted the plaintiffs motion for leave to reargue, and, upon reargument, denied the motion for summary judgment. Initially, we note that the Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in granting the plaintiffs motion for leave to reargue, since it apparently misapprehended certain facts in arriving at its earlier determination (see Matter of HoeyKennedy v Kennedy, 294 AD2d 573 [2002]; South Liberty Realty Corp. v Mercury, 292 AD2d 516 [2002]). However, upon reargument, the court should have adhered to its original determination granting the defendant’s motion for summary judgment. The defendant established her entitlement to judgment as a matter of law by demonstrating that placing the carpet remnant on top of the carpeted floor did not constitute an inherently dangerous condition. In opposition, the plaintiff failed to come forward with evidentiary proof to raise a triable issue of fact (see Cupo v Karfunkel, 1 AD3d 48 [2003]; Schoen v King Kullen Grocery Co., 296 AD2d 486 [2002] Gibbons v Lido & Point Lookout Fire Dist., 293 AD2d 646 [2002]; Tresgallo v Danica, 286 AD2d 326 [2001]; Portanova v Trump Taj Mahal Assoc., 270 AD2d 757 [2000]; cf. Napolitano v Dhingra, 249 AD2d 523 [1998]; Ashton v Bobruitsky, 214 AD2d 630 [1995]). Santucci, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Townes, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, for a judgment declaring that the plaintiffs have a prescriptive easement over a driveway located on the defendants’ property, the defendants appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Winiek, J.), entered May 6, 2002, which, after a nonjury trial, inter alia, is in favor of the plaintiffs and against them declaring that the plaintiffs have a prescriptive easement over the subject driveway. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. The Supreme Court properly determined that the plaintiffs were entitled to a prescriptive easement over the driveway located on the defendants’ property. The plaintiffs established, by clear and convincing evidence, that their use of the driveway was adverse, open, notorious, continued, and uninterrupted for the prescriptive period of 10 years (see Barone v Guthy, 295 AD2d 460 [2002]; Coverdale v Zucker, 261 AD2d 429, 430 [1999]; Casey v Bazan, 253 AD2d 838 [1998]; Reinwald v Accardi, 201 AD2d 476 [1994]; see also CPLR 212 [a]; RPAPL 311). The defendants failed to rebut this showing with evidence that such use was permissive. The defendants’ remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.P, Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Eerier, J.), entered September 25, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The plaintiff, an employee of K-Mart Stores, Inc. (hereinafter K-Mart), was injured when a coworker drove a forklift over his right foot. At the time, the plaintiff and his coworker were trying to hoist a pallet jack onto a forklift owned by K-Mart and operated by the coworker, and then onto a delivery truck owned by the defendant. The driver of the defendant’s delivery truck had not brought a pallet jack with him and instead requested the plaintiff to obtain one from K-Mart so that the truck could be unloaded. Relying on the commercial relationship between the defendant and K-Mart, the plaintiff contends that the defendant is liable to him for failing to perform its commercial obligations in a nonnegligent fashion. The plaintiff also contends that the defendant is vicariously liable for the acts of his coworker because the latter became a special employee of the defendant during the course of the task. Although a person’s status as a special employee is generally a question of fact, it may be determined as a matter of law “where the particular, undisputed critical facts compel that conclusion and present no triable issue of fact” (Thompson v Grumman Aerospace Corp., 78 NY2d 553, 558 [1991]; Small v Winter Bros., 302 AD2d 445 [2003]; DeRubeis v D & F Wastepaper Co., 273 AD2d 434, 435 [2000]; Levine v Lee’s Pontiac, 203 AD2d 259, 260 [1994]). The plaintiff adduced no evidence that K-Mart surrendered control over the manner, details, and ultimate result of his coworker’s activities, or that the defendant assumed any control over those details and results (see Vanderwerff v Victoria Home, 299 AD2d 345 [2002]; Carino v Kenmare Remodeling, 292 AD2d 555, 556 [2002]; Martin v Baldwin Union Free School Dish, 271 AD2d 579, 580 [2000]). The fact that the plaintiffs coworker performed a task at the request of the defendant, without more, does not create an employer-employee relationship between the defendant and the plaintiffs coworker (see Eddy v White, 304 AD2d 959 [2003]; Sherman v Reynolds Metals Co., 295 AD2d 843, 845 [2002]; cf. Konstantinovsky v Golden Chocolate, 210 AD2d 299 [1994]; Richiusa v Kahn Lbr. & Millwork Co., 148 AD2d 690, 692 [1989]). Contrary to the plaintiffs argument, the defendant did not assume a duty of care toward the plaintiff by virtue of its commercial relationship with the plaintiffs employer (see Espinal v Melville Snow Contrs., 98 NY2d 136, 141-142 [2002]). Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal from (1) an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Joseph, J.), entered July 22, 2002, which granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that the plaintiffs Doris Montano and Maria M. Lopez did not sustain serious injuries within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d), and (2) so much of an order of the same court dated November 26, 2002, as denied that branch of their motion which was for leave to renew the prior motion for summary judgment. Ordered that the order entered July 22, 2002, is reversed, on the law, the motion for summary judgment is denied, and the complaint is reinstated, and it is further, Ordered that the appeal from so much of the order dated November 27, 2002, as denied that branch of the motion which was for leave to renew is dismissed as academic; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the plaintiff. In support of his motion for summary judgment, the defendant failed to demonstrate that the injuries of the plaintiffs Doris Montano and Maria M. Lopez were not causally related to the accident, or that they were not serious within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) (see Shin v Torres, 295 AD2d 495 [2002]; see also Franca v Parisi, 298 AD2d 554 [2002]; Junco v Ranzi, 288 AD2d 440 [2001]; Papadonikolakis v First Fid. Leasing Group, 283 AD2d 470 [2001]). Accordingly, the defendant failed to establish a prima facie case for entitlement to judgment as a matter of law. Under these circumstances, we need not consider whether the plaintiffs’ papers were sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact (see Mariaca-Olmos v Mizrhy, 226 AD2d 437 [1996]). Ritter, J.E, McGinity, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Clemente, J.), dated February 27, 2002, which granted the defendants’ respective motions for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them on the ground that the injured plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is affirmed, with one bill of costs. The defendants each made a prima facie showing that the injured plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury as a result of the subject accident within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345, 352 [2002]; Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955, 956-957 [1992]; Varghese v Ehret, 305 AD2d 402 [2003]; McCauley v Ross, 298 AD2d 506, 506-507 [2002]; Holmes v Hanson, 286 AD2d 750, 751 [2001]). In opposition, the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact. The magnetic resonance imaging reports of the injured plaintiff’s radiologists did not constitute competent evidence (see Grasso v Angerami, 79 NY2d 813, 814-815 [1991]; Caldwell v Kellner, 200 AD2d 702 [1994]; Tatti v Cummings, 193 AD2d 596 [1993]). Furthermore, the injured plaintiffs self-serving allegations that she can no longer perform her daily duties and household chores were insufficient to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether she sustained a medically-determined injury of a nonpermanent nature which prevented her from performing substantially all of the material acts which constitute her usual and customary daily activities (see Young v Ryan, 265 AD2d 547, 548 [1999]; Rum v Pam Transp., 250 AD2d 751 [1998]). Furthermore, the Supreme Court properly declined to consider the physician’s affidavit improperly submitted by the plaintiff for the first time in a surreply (see CPLR 2214; Klimis v Lopez, 290 AD2d 538 [2002]; Voytek Tech. v Rapid Access Consulting, 279 AD2d 470, 471 [2001]). Florio, J.E, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal (1) from an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Phelan, J.), dated July 18, 2002, which granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that the plaintiff Pauline Mullings did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) and (2), as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the same court dated October 17, 2002, as, upon renewal and reargument, adhered to its original determination. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated July 18, 2002, is dismissed, as that order was superseded by the order dated October 17, 2002, made upon renewal and reargument; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated October 17, 2002, is reversed insofar as appealed from, upon renewal and reargument, the motion for summary judgment is denied, and the order dated July 18, 2002, is vacated; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the plaintiff. The defendants’ motion for summary judgment should be denied. The medical proof submitted by the defendants in support of their motion was insufficient to demonstrate prima facie that the plaintiffs injuries were not causally related to the accident, or that they were not serious , within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) (see Shin v Torres, 295 AD2d 495 [2002]; Franca v Parisi, 298 AD2d 554 [2002]; Junco v Ranzi, 288 AD2d 440 [2001]; Papadonikolakis v First Fid. Leasing Group, 283 AD2d 470 [2001]). Accordingly, the defendants failed to establish a prima facie case for judgment as a matter of law. Under these circumstances, we need not consider whether the plaintiffs papers were sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact (see Mariaca-Olmos v Mizrhy, 226 AD2d 437 [1996]). Ritter, J.P., Mc-Ginity, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, for money had and received, the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Putnam County (Hickman, J.), dated January 7, 2002, which granted that branch of the motion of the defendant Mahopac Central School District which was to dismiss the complaint insofar as asserted against it as time-barred, and granted the separate motion of the defendant Town of Carmel to dismiss the complaint insofar as asserted against it. Ordered that the order is modified by deleting the provision thereof granting the motion of the defendant Town of Carmel, and substituting therefor a provision granting that branch of the motion which was to dismiss, in effect, as time-barred all claims against it accruing before August 14, 1994, and otherwise denying the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed, with costs to the defendant Mahopac Central School District payable by the plaintiffs. . The plaintiffs commenced this action on August 14, 2000, to recover approximately $1,350,000 in school taxes, which they alleged had been wrongfully paid by the defendant Town of Carmel (hereinafter Carmel) to the defendant Mahopac Central School District (hereinafter Mahopac) for the tax years 1989-1990 through 1995-1996. The complaint alleged causes of action to recover money had and received and for unjust enrichment against Mahopac, and a cause of action to recover money had and received against Carmel. Thereafter, Mahopac and Carmel separately moved to dismiss the complaint insofar as asserted against them. The Supreme Court granted both motions. Contrary to the plaintiffs’ contention, the Supreme Court properly dismissed the complaint insofar as asserted against Mahopac as time-barred. Insofar as is relevant here, an action against a school district must be commenced within one year after the cause of action accrues (see Education Law § 3813 [2-b]; Allshine, C.S. v South Orangetown Cent. School Dist., 305 AD2d 617 [2003]; Bias Limud Torah v County of Sullivan, 290 AD2d 856, 858 [2002]; Lancaster Towers Assoc. v Assessor of Town of Lancaster, 259 AD2d 1001, 1002 [1999]). The cause of action for money had and received accrued at the time of the alleged wrongful payment by Carmel to Mahopac (see Matter of First Natl. City Bank v City of N.Y. Fin. Admin., 36 NY2d 87 [1975]; Matter of Scarborough School Corp. v Assessor of Town of Ossining, 97 AD2d 476 [1983]). The cause of action to recover damages for unjust enrichment started to run upon the occurrence of the wrongful act giving rise to a duty of restitution (see Congregation Yetev Lev D’Satmar v 26 Adar N.B. Corp., 192 AD2d 501, 503 [1993]). Thus, the plaintiffs’ causes of action accrued, at the latest, in 1997. As this action was not commenced until August 14, 2000, the action against Mahopac was time-barred. With regard to Carmel, although the Supreme Court improperly applied the doctrine of laches to dismiss the complaint (see Matter of Ecumenical Task Force of Niagara Frontier v Love Canal Area Revitalization Agency, 179 AD2d 261, 265 [1992]), a six-year statute of limitations (see CPLR 213; Matter of First Natl. City Bank v City of N.Y. Fin. Admin., supra; Board of Educ. of Sachem Cent. School Dist. at Holbrook v Jones, 205 AD2d 486, 487 [1994]), bars the recovery against that defendant of money had and received before August 14, 1994. S. Miller, J.E, Goldstein, Adams and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Orange County (Peter C. Patsalos, J.), dated October 31, 2002, which granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that she did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) and denied as academic her cross motion for summary judgment on the issue of liability. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. We agree with the Supreme Court that the plaintiff failed to come forward with objective evidence to rebut the defendants’ initial showing that she did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Therefore, summary judgment was properly granted to the defendants (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345, 350 [2002]; Amato v Psaltakis, 279 AD2d 439 [2001]). In light of the forgoing, we need not reach the plaintiff’s remaining contention. Ritter, J.P., Smith, Friedmann, H. Miller and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Pitts, J.), entered September 11, 2002, which, upon a jury verdict in favor of the defendant 218 E. Main St. Corp. and against them on the issue of liability, dismissed the complaint insofar as asserted against that defendant. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, the complaint is reinstated insofar as asserted against the defendant 218 E. Main St. Corp., and a new trial is ordered, with costs to abide the event. It is well settled that extrinsic evidence may not be used to impeach the credibility of a witness on collateral matters (see Badr v Hogan, 75 NY2d 629, 634 [1990]; Halloran v Virginia Chems., 41 NY2d 386, 390 [1977]; Ingebretsen v Manha, 218 AD2d 784 [1995]; Getlin v St. Vincent’s Hosp. & Med. Ctr. of N.Y., 117 AD2d 707 [1986]). Here, the trial court improperly permitted counsel for the defendant 218 E. Main St. Corp. to introduce a hospital record and the testimony of a physician’s assistant to contradict the injured plaintiff’s testimony on a matter that was irrelevant to the issues in the case. Moreover, the error was sufficiently prejudicial to warrant a new trial (see Badr v Hogan, supra at 636-637). Santucci, J.P, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from an order of the County Court, Nassau County (Cotter, J.), dated October 10, 2001, which, pursuant to Correction Law article 6-C, designated him a level three sex offender. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The defendant contends that the People’s proof, consisting of a risk assessment instrument and case summary prepared by the Board of Examiners of Sex Offenders (hereinafter the Board), along with the defendant’s presentence report, failed to show by clear and convincing evidence that he should be classified as a level three sex offender. The defendant’s contention is without merit, as is his related contention that he was deprived of due process (see People v Mitchell, 300 AD2d 377 [2002]; People v Cureton, 299 AD2d 532 [2002]; Correction Law § 168-n [3]). Further, we find no support in the record for the defendant’s contention that his previous conviction for assault did not arise out of a sexual offense. The minutes of the defendant’s plea allocution demonstrated unequivocally that he attempted to have sex with his victim, who resisted. Moreover, we disagree with the defendant’s contention that consideration by the Board of a youthful offender adjudication for sexual abuse in the third degree was improper as a matter of law. The Risk Assessment Guidelines developed by the Board expressly provide that youthful offender adjudications are to be treated as “crimes” for purposes of assessing the defendant’s likelihood of re-offending and danger to public safety (see Risk Assessment Guidelines & Commentary at 6-7, 13; People v Vite-Acosta, 184 Misc 2d 206, 209 [2000]; People v Gardner, 2002 WL 1012547 [2002]; but see People v Bryant, 184 Mise 2d 513 [2000]). Accordingly, the Board’s assessment of the defendant as a level three sex offender was proper. Smith, J.E, Krausman, Mc-Ginity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from an order of the County Court, Suffolk County (Ohlig, J.), dated November 14, 2001, which, pursuant to Correction Law article 6-C, designated him a level two sex offender. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The defendant’s contention that the risk level assessment and case summary prepared by the Board of Examiners of Sex Offenders (hereinafter the Board) pursuant to Correction Law § 168-Z demonstrated that he should have been designated as a level one, rather than a level two, sex offender is unpreserved for appellate review (see People v Baker, 303 AD2d 570 [2003]; People v Roland, 292 AD2d 271 [2002]). At the hearing, the defendant consented to the level two designation and failed to raise the issues now presented on appeal. In any event, the court’s determination to designate the defendant a level two sex offender was supported by clear and convincing evidence, based on the facts contained in the Board’s case summary and risk assessment instrument (see Correction Law §§ 168-Z, 168-n), and should not be disturbed. Ritter, J.P., Goldstein, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover a real estate brokerage commission, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (LaCava, J.), entered August 26, 2002, which granted the defendants’ motion pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (1) and (7) to dismiss the complaint and denied its cross motion for leave to amend the complaint to add the defendant Valerie Calabria-Maher in her capacity as executrix of the estate of Concetta Calabria as a party. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. To succeed on a motion to dismiss pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (1), the documentary evidence which forms the basis of the defense must be such that it resolves all factual issues as a matter of law, and conclusively disposes of the plaintiffs claim (see Trade Source v Westchester Wood Works, 290 AD2d 437 [2002]). Here, the documentary evidence submitted by both parties flatly contradicted the factual claims alleged in the complaint (see Morris v Morris, 306 AD2d 449 [2003]; Hausman Realty Co. v Klaver, 262 AD2d 613 [1999]; Corporate Natl. Realty v Philson Ltd., 232 AD2d 518 [1996]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly dismissed the complaint. Further, as the plaintiff failed to establish any contractual privity between itself and the proposed defendant, or that there was a meeting of the minds between the buyer and the seller on the essential terms of the sale (see M.A. Salazar, Inc. v Levy, 237 AD2d 583 [1997]), the Supreme Court properly denied the plaintiffs cross motion for leave to amend the complaint to add a party defendant since “an amendment which is devoid of merit, and whose insufficiency or lack of merit is ‘clear and free from doubt’ will not be permitted” (Mathison v Zocco, 207 AD2d 434, 435 [1994], quoting Hauptman v New York City Health & Hosps. Corp., 162 AD2d 588, 589 [1990]). The plaintiff’s remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.E, McGinity, H. Miller and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, for a judgment declaring that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of certain leased premises, the plaintiff appeals from an order and judgment (one paper) of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (O’Connell, J), entered July 26, 2002, which denied its motion pursuant to CFLR 3001 for immediate possession of the subject premises and declared that the defendant Marsan Realty Corp. is entitled to possession. Ordered that the order and judgment is affirmed, with costs. The issuance of a warrant of eviction terminates a landlord-tenant relationship (see RFAPL 749 [3]; Iltit Assoc. v Sterner, 63 AD2d 600 [1978]). The defendant landlord, Marsan Realty Corp, (hereinafter Marsan), obtained a warrant of eviction on April 25, 2002, and obtained actual possession of the premises on or about May 1, 2002. Accordingly, the Supreme Court was correct in denying the plaintiffs motion and in declaring that Marsan is entitled to possession. Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of contract, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Orange County (Peter C. Patsalos, J.), dated September 4, 2002, as granted that branch of the defendant’s motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the first cause of action to recover damages for breach of contract. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The defendant met its burden of demonstrating, prima facie, that the plaintiff failed to comply with the notice requirement of the parties’ construction contract (see A.H.A. Gen. Constr. v New York City Hous. Auth., 92 NY2d 20, 30-32 [1998]; Three Bros. Roofing Contrs. v New York City Hous. Auth., 269 AD2d 523, 534 [2000]). In opposition, the plaintiff failed to submit evidence sufficient to defeat the defendant’s entitlement to judgment as a matter of law and to raise a triable issue of fact (see generally Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320, 324 [1986]). In light of our determination, we need not reach the merits of the parties’ remaining contentions. Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of warranty, the defendants appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Doyle, J.), dated October 24, 2002, as denied those branches of their motion pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (1) and (7) which were to dismiss the first through sixth and eighth through tenth causes of action in the complaint based upon documentary evidence and for failure to state a cause of action. Ordered that the order is modified by (1) deleting the provisions thereof denying those branches of the motion which were to dismiss the ninth and tenth causes of action insofar as asserted against the defendants Watermill Development Corp. and Gordon Kessler and substituting therefor provisions granting those branches of the motion, (2) deleting the provisions thereof denying that branch of the motion which was to dismiss the eighth cause of action insofar as asserted against the defendant Gordon Kessler and substituting therefor a provision granting that branch of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. The Supreme Court properly denied those branches of the defendants’ motion which were to dismiss the first through fifth causes of action alleging breach of implied warranty. It is true, as the defendants contend, that the complaint must allege that before the commencement of the action, and within 30 days of the expiration period of the warranty, written notice of the claims was provided to them, and that the failure to allege compliance with this statutory condition precedent (see General Business Law § 777-a [4] [a]) is fatal to a cause of action to recover damages for breach of implied warranty (see Taggart v Martano, 282 AD2d 521 [2001]; see also Pinkus v V.F. Bldrs., 270 AD2d 470 [2000]). However, the defendants incorrectly contend that the complaint failed to meet this requirement. On a motion to dismiss, “the complaint must be construed in the light most favorable to the plaintiff and all factual allegations must be accepted as true” (Gruen v County of Suffolk, 187 AD2d 560, 562 [1992]). In paragraph 50 of the verified complaint in this case, the plaintiffs alleged that the “defendants failed to respond to plaintiffs’ written and oral complaints regarding the numerous instances of defective workmanship, defective materials, defective design, and defective installation and have refused to repair, replace, or restore same.” The alleged written complaints were timely made since they predated the verified complaint, which was dated long before the expiration of the warranty period. The Supreme Court erred, however, in failing to dismiss the eighth cause of action alleging breach of contract insofar as asserted against the defendant Gordon Kessler. The evidence established that Kessler entered into the contract of sale, and the related contracts, in his corporate capacity as president of the defendant Watermill Development Corp. (see Madison Home Equities v Echeverria, 266 AD2d 435 [1999]; Gottehrer v Viet-Hoa Co., 170 AD2d 648 [1991]; Gold v Royal Cigar Co., 105 AD2d 831 [1984]). The Supreme Court should have dismissed the ninth cause of action seeking damages for fraud, because the disclaimer in the contract of sale was sufficiently specific to defeat any allegations that the contract was executed in reliance upon contrary oral representations (see Bedowitz v Farrell Dev. Co., 289 AD2d 432, 433 [2001]; Busch v Mastropierro, 258 AD2d 492 [1999]; Masters v Visual Bldg. Inspections, 227 AD2d 597 [1996]). Additionally, a cause of action to recover damages for fraud will not arise when the only fraud alleged relates to a breach of contract (see Morgan v Smith Corp., 221 AD2d 422 [1995]; Mastropieri v Solmar Constr. Co., 159 AD2d 698, 700 [1990]). The Supreme Court, moreover, erred in denying that branch of the defendants’ motion which was to dismiss the tenth cause of action for an award of an attorney’s fee (see Hooper Assoc. v AGS Computers, 74 NY2d 487, 491 [1989]). The defendants’ remaining contentions are without merit. Altman, J.E, Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Dollard, J.), dated October 15, 2002, as, upon renewal, adhered to its prior determination granting the defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint in an order of the same court dated June 26, 2002. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, upon renewal, the motion for summary judgment is denied, the complaint is reinstated, and the order dated June 26, 2002, is vacated. The defendants made out a prima facie case for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) (see Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955 [1992]). Upon renewal, the plaintiff submitted his treating physician’s affidavit, which compared the plaintiffs limitations in his neck and back to the normal function. These findings were supported by, inter alia, objective medical evidence of a cervical disc herniation and a lumbosacral disc bulge. The treating physician opined that the plaintiffs injuries were causally related to the subject accident, and were permanent. This evidence was sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345 [2002]; Jacobowitz v Roventini, 302 AD2d 432 [2003]). Ritter, J.E, McGinity, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Belen, J.), dated May 15, 2002, as granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. Contrary to the plaintiffs’ contention, the Supreme Court properly exercised its discretion in allowing the defendant homeowners to serve an untimely motion for summary judgment (see Darby v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 289 AD2d 191 [2001]; Samuel v A.T.P. Dev. Corp., 276 AD2d 685, 686 [2000]; Goodman v Gudi, 264 AD2d 758 [1999]; Rossi v Arnot Ogden Med. Ctr., 252 AD2d 778 [1998]). It is well settled that an owner of a one- or two-family dwelling is subject to liability under Labor Law § 240 (1) and § 241 (6) only if he or she directed or controlled the work being performed (see Garcia v Petrakis, 306 AD2d 315 [2003]; Duarte v East Hills Constr. Corp., 274 AD2d 493, 494 [2000]; Lang v Havlicek, 272 AD2d 298 [2000]; Kolakowski v Feeney, 204 AD2d 693 [1994]). “The phrase direct or control is construed strictly and refers to the situation where the owner supervises the method and manner of the work” (Kolakowski v Feeney, supra at 693 [internal quotation marks omitted]). In this case, there is no evidence that the defendant homeowners directed or controlled the work being performed on their two-family house. Accordingly, the defendants were entitled to summary judgment dismissing the Labor Law § 240 (1) and § 241 (6) causes of action. Additionally, summary judgment dismissing the common-law negligence and Labor Law § 200 causes of action was properly granted. For an owner to be liable for common-law negligence or pursuant to Labor Law § 200, the plaintiff must show that the owner supervised or controlled the work, or had actual or constructive notice of the unsafe condition causing the accident (see Garcia v Petrakis, supra; Duarte v East Hills Constr. Corp., supra; Charles v City of New York, 227 AD2d 429, 430 [1996]). Upon the defendants’ prima facie showing that they did not supervise or control the injured plaintiffs work and that they had no actual or constructive notice of the alleged defect that caused his accident, the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable question of fact. Altman, J.E, Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for breach of a retainer agreement, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Richmond County (Ponterio, J.), dated July 26, 2002, which denied his motion to reject the defendant’s answers to interrogatories. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. Contrary to the plaintiffs contention, his motion to reject the defendant’s response to his interrogatories was properly denied. The defendant provided adequate answers to the interrogatories submitted to him, and the plaintiff failed to demonstrate that they were not responsive (see CPLR 3133 [b]; Grosso Moving & Packing Co. v Damens, 261 AD2d 339 [1999]; Kelly v Kelly, 139 Misc 2d 1079 [1988]). Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and Luciano, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for medical malpractice and lack of informed consent, the plaintiff appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Gavrin, J.), dated February 22, 2002, which, upon a jury verdict, is in favor of the defendant and against her dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. The jury verdict that the surgery performed by the defendant was not a proximate cause of the plaintiffs injuries was based on a fair interpretation of the credible evidence and. should not be disturbed (see Nicastro v Park, 113 AD2d 129 [1985]). It is well settled that a jury’s resolution of conflicting expert testimony is entitled to great weight, since it is the jury that had the opportunity to observe and hear the experts (see Bobek v Crystal, 291 AD2d 521, 522 [2002], lv denied 100 NY2d 505 [2003]). The plaintiffs remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Altman, J.E, Goldstein, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Cozzens, J.), dated October 9, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that he did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The Supreme Court properly granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. The defendant established a prima facie case that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345 [2002]; Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955 [1992]). In opposition, the plaintiff failed to submit any admissible medical proof that was contemporaneous with the accident showing any initial range of motion restrictions in his spine (see Ifrach v Neiman, 306 AD2d 380 [2003]; Pajda v Pedone, 303 AD2d 729 [2003]; Lanza v Carlick, 279 AD2d 613, 614 [2001]). Furthermore, the plaintiff did not submit any admissible medical evidence as to the nature and extent of any treatment between the time of the accident and the final examination two years and nine months thereafter (see Crespo v Kramer, 295 AD2d 467 [2002]; Mejia v Thom, 280 AD2d 528 [2001]; Goldin v Lee, 275 AD2d 341 [2000]). Florio, J.E, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for medical malpractice, the defendants Anthony J. Policastro, Thomas Cerabona, Westchester County Medical Center, and Westchester County Health Care Corporation appeal from (1) a judgment of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Nastasi, J.), entered June 28, 2002, which, inter alia, upon a jury verdict awarding damages to the plaintiff in the principal sums of $350,000 for past pain and suffering, $719,500 for future pain and suffering, and $280,500 for future medical expenses, and upon the granting of that branch of their motion which was to set aside the jury verdict on the issue of damages to the extent of granting a new trial with respect to the damages awarded for future medical expenses unless the plaintiff stipulated to reduce that award from the principal sum of $280,500 to the principal sum of $15,000, and upon the plaintiffs stipulation to so reduce those damages, is in favor of the plaintiff and against them in the principal sum of $1,084,500, and (2) an order of the same court entered September 10, 2002, which denied their motion to stay enforcement of the judgment pending appeal. Ordered that the appeal from the order is dismissed as academic, without costs or disbursements; and it is further, Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the facts and as an exercise of discretion, with costs to the appellants, and a new trial is granted on the issue of damages only unless, within 30 days after service upon the plaintiff of a copy of this decision and order, the plaintiff shall serve and file in the office of the Clerk of the Supreme Court, Westchester County, a written stipulation consenting to decrease the damages as to past pain and suffering from the principal sum of $350,000 to the principal sum of $200,000, and to decrease the damages as to future pain and suffering from the principal sum of $719,500 to the principal sum of $350,000, and to the entry of an appropriate amended judgment accordingly; in the event the plaintiff so stipulates, then the judgment, as so reduced and amended, is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. Contrary to the appellants’ contention, the trial court providently exercised its discretion in permitting the plaintiff to call an undisclosed medical expert during the trial. The surprise testimony regarding the number of surgical tacks used during the plaintiffs hernia operation, which was critical to the issue of proximate cause, established good cause for the plaintiff’s failure to comply with CPLR 3101 (d) (see Price v City of New York, 258 AD2d 635, 636 [1999]; Benedict v Seasille Equities Corp., 190 AD2d 649 [1993]; Simpson v Bellew, 161 AD2d 693, 698 [1990]). The plaintiff presented legally sufficient evidence on the issue of proximate cause (see Cohen v Hallmark Cards, 45 NY2d 493 [1978]). The conflicting testimony of the parties’ medical experts with respect to causation presented a credibility issue for the jury (see David v EZ Rate Rental Corp., 298 AD2d 353 [2002]; Kaplan v Nadler, 289 AD2d 454, 455 [2001]). The appellants’ contentions regarding the trial court’s rulings and charge are either without merit or, under the circumstances of this case, do not warrant a new trial. The defendants waived their contention that the complaint was barred by the one-year statute of limitations for battery (see Dougherty v City of Rye, 63 NY2d 989, 991-992 [1984]; CPLR 3211 [e]). In any event, there is no merit to their claim that the plaintiffs allegations constituted a cause of action to recover damages for battery, rather than for lack of informed consent (see Messina v Matarasso, 284 AD2d 32, 34 [2001]; Rigie v Goldman, 148 AD2d 23, 28-29 [1989]). We agree with the appellants that the award of damages for past and future pain and suffering deviated materially from what would be reasonable compensation to the extent indicated (see CPLR 5501 [c]; Villa v City of New York, 148 AD2d 699 [1989]; cf. Strangio v New York Power Auth., 275 AD2d 945 [2000]). The appellants’ remaining contentions are without merit. Florio, J.P, Friedmann, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for personal injuries based on assault and battery, etc., the defendant Hector L. Hernandez appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Orange County (Green, J.H.O.), entered December 27, 2001, which, after a nonjury trial, and upon an order of the same court dated November 21, 2001, and a report of the same court dated October 10, 2001, finding, inter alia, that he used excessive force in effecting an arrest, is in favor of the plaintiffs and against him in the principal sum of $7,500. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. “Where, as here, a case is tried without a jury, our power to review the evidence is as broad as that of the trial court, bearing in mind, of course, that due regard must be given to the decision of the Trial Judge who was in a position to assess the evidence and the credibility of the witnesses. Moreover, the trial court’s determination will generally not be disturbed on appeal unless it is obvious that the conclusions could not be reached under any fair interpretation of the evidence” (Universal Leasing Servs. v Flushing Hae Kwan Rest., 169 AD2d 829, 830 [1991]). A claim that a law enforcement official used excessive force during the course of an arrest, investigatory stop, or other “seizure” of the person is to be analyzed under the “objective reasonableness” standard of the Fourth Amendment (US Const 4th Amend; Graham v Connor, 490 US 386, 388 [1989]; see Ostrander v State of New York, 289 AD2d 463, 464 [2001]). The determination of an excessive force claim requires an analysis of the facts of the particular case, including “the severity of the crime at issue, whether the suspect poses an immediate threat to the safety of the officers or others, and whether he [or she] is actively resisting arrest or attempting to evade arrest by flight” (Graham v Connor, supra at 396). Our review of the record herein reveals that the Supreme Court’s determination was based on a fair interpretation of the evidence and should not be disturbed. Krausman, J.E, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a juvenile delinquency proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 3, the appeal is from an order of disposition of the Family Court, Kings County (Hepner, J.), dated October 18, 2002, which, upon a fact-finding order of the same court dated October 8, 2002, made after a hearing, finding that the appellant committed acts which, if committed by an adult, would have constituted the crimes of robbery in the second degree, grand larceny in the fourth degree, and criminal possession of stolen property in the fifth degree, adjudged him to be a juvenile delinquent, and placed him in the custody of the New York State Office of Children and Family Services for a period of 18 months. The appeal brings up for review the fact-finding order dated October 8, 2002. Ordered that the order of disposition is reversed, on the law, without costs or disbursements, the fact-finding order is vacated, and the matter is remitted to the Family Court, Kings County, for a new fact-finding hearing before a different judge. The appellant, accompanied, by another youth, the correspondent Ricardo R., allegedly stole an electric scooter from the complainant. The evidence adduced at the fact-finding hearing, when viewed in a light most favorable to the presentment agency, was legally sufficient to establish that the appellant committed acts which, if committed by an adult, would have constituted the crimes of robbery in the second degree, grand larceny in the fourth degree, and criminal possession of stolen property in the fifth degree (see Matter of Darnell S., 300 AD2d 666 [2002]). However, the testimony , of the correspondent and that of another witness cast doubt on the theory of the presentment agency’s case, and suggested that the appellant actually had purchased the scooter, along with a charger and some other accessories that the complainant did not report as having been stolen. The appellant did not testify at the fact-finding hearing. During cross-examination of Ricardo R., however, the Family Court permitted counsel for the presentment agency to inquire whether Ricardo R. had committed a subsequent robbery with the appellant. Over strenuous objection by counsel for the appellant, Ricardo R. responded in the affirmative. As conceded by the presentment agency on appeal, the Family Court erred in permitting the elicitation of testimony from Ricardo R. about an uncharged crime he allegedly committed with the appellant. Since the appellant did not testify in his own behalf, Ricardo R.’s prejudicial testimony (see People v Butler, 258 AD2d 368 [1999]) was inadmissible and completely irrelevant to the appellant’s credibility or any other issue in controversy (see People v Mullin, 41 NY2d 475 [1977]; People v Blanchard, 83 AD2d 905 [1981]). The presentment agency nevertheless argues that the error was harmless. We disagree. Notwithstanding that the challenged testimony was not extensive, this was a very close case. The evidence of guilt was far from overwhelming (see People v Ross, 227 AD2d 651 [1996]), and the reasoning expressed by the Family Court in its oral fact-finding decision demonstrated that it rested upon some degree of speculation as to whether the accessories recovered from the appellant matched the scooter allegedly stolen from the complainant. Accordingly, we reverse the order of disposition and remit for a new fact-finding hearing before a different judge. Santucci, J.E, S. Miller, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ., concur.
. In related proceedings pursuant to Family Court Act article 6, the father appeals from an order of the Family Court, Suffolk County (Lehman, J.), entered March 12, 2002, which, after a hearing, granted the petition of the Commissioner of the Department of Social Services to free the subject children for adoption and dismissed his petition for custody. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The appellant is the unwed father of two children who are in the custody of the Department of Social Services pursuant to a surrender instrument executed by the children’s mother. The children have always resided with the foster parents who seek to adopt them. Contrary to the appellant’s contention, he did not promptly assert his parental rights and manifest his willingness to assume custody of the children. Accordingly, the Family Court properly dismissed the appellant’s petition for custody (see Domestic Relations Law § 111-a [3]; Matter of Robert O. v Russell K., 80 NY2d 254, 264-265 [1992]; Matter of Raquel Marie X., 76 NY2d 387, 402, 408 [1990], cert denied sub nom Robert C. v Miguel T., 498 US 984 [1990]; Matter of Skinner v Orange County Dept. of Social Servs., 292 AD2d 535 [2002]). The Family Court properly determined that adoption by the foster parents was in the best interests of the children. The appellant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Ritter, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Crane, JJ., concur.
In a support proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, Thomas L. Hill appeals from (1) an order of the Family Court, Suffolk County (Raimondi, H.E.), dated May 3, 2002, finding that he willfully failed to pay court-ordered child support, and (2) an order of the same court (Blass, J.), dated May 31, 2002, which found him in contempt of the order directing him to pay child support, confirmed the order dated May 3, 2002, and committed him to the Suffolk County Correctional Facility for a term of 90 days unless he purged his contempt by paying the sum of $7,500 toward child support arrears. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated May 3, 2002, is dismissed, without costs or disbursements, as no appeal lies as of right from that order and we decline to grant leave to appeal (see Family Ct Act § 1112); and it further, Ordered that the order dated May 31, 2002, is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The proof before the Hearing Examiner of the appellant’s failure to pay court-ordered child support constituted prima facie evidence of a willful violation of the support order (see Family Ct Act § 454 [3] [a]; York v York, 250 AD2d 838 [1998]; Matter of Wilkinson v Wilkinson, 232 AD2d 572 [1996]). The burden of going forward then shifted to the appellant to offer competent, credible evidence of his inability to comply with the order (see Matter of Powers v Powers, 86 NY2d 63, 69-70 [1995]). The appellant failed to meet this burden (see Matter of Dorner v McCarroll, 271 AD2d 530 [2000]; Matter of Bouchard v Bouchard, 263 AD2d 775 [1999]; Matter of Mazzilli v Mazzilli, 248 AD2d 474 [1998]; Matter of Walsh v Walsh, 227 AD2d 497 [1996]). Thus, the finding that his violation of the support order was willful was supported by the evidence. The appellant’s contentions concerning an order dated August 29, 2000, entered upon his default, are not properly before this Court in view of the fact that his appeal from a subsequent order denying his motion to vacate his default was previously dismissed for failure to prosecute (see Bray v Cox, 38 NY2d 350 [1976]; Jeff Isaac Rare Coins v Atlantic Discount Brokerage, 196 AD2d 643 [1993]). In any event, the contentions are without merit (see Matter of Fierro v Fierro, 211 AD2d 676 [1995]). The appellant’s remaining contentions are without merit (see Matter of Roth v Bowman, 245 AD2d 521 [1997]). Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In a support proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, the father appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order and judgment (one paper) of the Family Court, Suffolk County (Spinner, J.), dated January 27, 2003, as, upon directing that he be incarcerated for contempt of court, set a purge amount of $1,370, and imposed an incarceration cost of $197 per day upon him. Ordered that the order and judgment is modified, on the law, by deleting the provision thereof imposing an incarceration cost of $197 upon the father; as so modified, the order and judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. Upon proof that the father wilfully failed to obey the lawful order of the Family Court to post an undertaking, the Family Court properly adjudged him in contempt, and included in the purge amount, in addition to arrears owed, the amount of the undertaking (see Family Ct Act §§ 471, 454). However, the imposition of an incarceration cost of $197 upon the father must be vacated (see Matter of Suffolk County Dept, of Social Sews. [Matthew] v Harry, 306 AD2d 490 [2003]; Matter of Moron v Moron, 306 AD2d 349 [2003]; Matter of DeMarco v Newton, 305 AD2d 501 [2003]). Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 to review so much of a determination of the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles dated November 15, 2001, as affirmed so much of a determination of an Administrative Law Judge of the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles, dated January 10, 2001, as, after a hearing, found that the petitioner violated New York City Traffic Rules and Regulations (34 RCNY) § 4-15 (b) (9) and (10), and imposed a penalty. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed insofar as reviewed, with costs, the petition is denied, and the proceeding is dismissed on the merits. Judicial review of a determination rendered by an administrative body after a hearing is limited to whether the determination is supported by substantial evidence upon the entire record (see 300 Gramatan Ave. Assoc. v State Div. of Human Rights, 45 NY2d 176 [1978]; Matter of Liuzzo v State of New York Dept. of Motor Vehs. Appeals Bd., 209 AD2d 618 [1994]). A reviewing court will not undertake the functions of weighing evidence and assessing credibility, as those issues are committed to the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge (see Matter of Scara-Mix, Inc. v Martinez, 305 AD2d 418 [2003]). The determination that the petitioner violated New York City Traffic Rules and Regulations (34 RCNY) § 4-15 (b) (9) and (10) is supported by substantial evidence, and we decline to disturb it. Smith, J.E, McGinity, H. Miller and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 75 to permanently stay arbitration of claims for uninsured motorist benefits, the petitioner appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Molia, J.), dated December 19, 2002, as denied that branch of the petition which was for a permanent stay of the arbitration of Leroy Langhorne and, in effect, dismissed that part of the proceeding. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, that branch of the petition which was for a permanent stay of the arbitration of Leroy Langhorne is reinstated, the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, for a hearing on the issues of whether there was physical contact between the insured’s vehicle and an alleged hit-and-run vehicle, and the arbitration is stayed pending a new determination in accordance herewith. On September 10, 2001, Leroy Langhorne was permissively operating a vehicle owned by Kameasha L. Scott on Route 25 in Calverton when it allegedly came into contact with a hit-and-run vehicle and struck a utility pole. Langhorne was airlifted from the scene to Stony Brook Medical Center and was unable to give a statement to the police due to the severity of his injuries. Langhorne and Scott retained counsel in or about June 2002 and, by letter dated June 28, 2002, notified the petitioner of their intention to file.claims for uninsured motorist benefits. The petitioner disclaimed coverage and they filed separate demands for arbitration. On or about August 26, 2002, the petitioner commenced this proceeding to permanently stay the arbitrations on the grounds, inter alia, that the accident did not involve an uninsured motor vehicle. Without conducting a hearing, the Supreme Court denied the petition as to Langhorne and granted it as to Scott. “Physical contact is a condition precedent to an arbitration based upon a hit-and-run accident involving an unidentified vehicle” (Matter of Great N. Ins. Co. v Ballinger, 303 AD2d 503, 504 [2003] ;see Insurance Law § 5217; Matter of Allstate Ins. Co. v Moshevev, 291 AD2d 401, 402 [2002]; Matter of State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v Johnson, 287 AD2d 640 [2001]). “The failure of the police accident report to mention contact with another vehicle raises a factual issue as to whether there actually was physical contact between [Scott’s vehicle] and a ‘hit and run’ vehicle” (Matter of Midwest Mut. Ins. Co. [Roberson], 64 AD2d 985 [1978]; see Matter of Bisignano v Interboro Mut. Indem. Ins. Co., 235 AD2d 419, 420 [1997]; Matter of Allstate Ins. Co. v Weiss, 178 AD2d 529 [1991]). Consequently, a hearing must be held to resolve that issue. A hearing is particularly appropriate in this case since there were no witnesses and the facts lie peculiarly within Langhorne’s knowledge (see Matter of Prudential Prop. & Cas. Ins. Co., 84 AD2d 551, 552 [1981]; Matter of Country-Wide Ins. Co. [Law], 97 AD2d 699 [1983]). Altman, J.E, H. Miller, Adams and Townes, JJ., concur.
In a child neglect proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 10, the mother appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of an order of fact-finding and disposition of the Family Court, Rockland County (Garvey, J), dated June 19, 2002, made after a hearing, as found that the mother had neglected the subject child. Ordered that the order of fact-finding and disposition is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. The finding of neglect is supported by a preponderance of the credible evidence, which demonstrated that the mother’s mental illness and refusal to undergo psychiatric treatment placed her child in imminent danger within the meaning of Family Court Act § 1012 (f) (see Matter of Octavia S., 255 AD2d 316 [1998]; Matter of Nassau County Dept, of Social Servs. [Raul B.] v Diane B., 231 AD2d 523 [1996]; Matter of Jesse DD., 223 AD2d 929 [1996]; Matter of Madeline R., 214 AD2d 445 [1995]). The mother’s remaining contention is without merit. Ritter, J.E, Smith, Goldstein and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to Social Services Law § 384-b to terminate the father’s parental rights, the father appeals from an order of disposition of the Family Court, Queens County (Hunt, J), dated October 19, 2001, which, after a fact-finding hearing, terminated his parental rights on the ground of abandonment without conducting a dispositional hearing. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The Family Court properly determined that there was clear and convincing evidence of the father’s abandonment of his child during the six-month period before the filing of the petition (see Social Services Law § 384-b [4] [b]; Matter of I.R., 153 AD2d 559, 560 [1989]). The father’s contact with his child was insufficient to defeat the presumption of abandonment (see Matter of Kerry J., 288 AJD2d 221 [2001]; Matter of Nahiem G., 241 AD2d 632, 633 [1997]). Furthermore, we find no reason to disturb the Family Court’s assessment of the witnesses’ credibility (see Matter of Jasmine T, 162 AD2d 756 [1990]). The Family Court acted within its discretion in terminating the father’s parental rights without first conducting a dispositional hearing (see Matter of Tashara B., 299 AD2d 356 [2002]). Smith, J.E, Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, the mother appeals from an order of the Family Court, Suffolk County (Trainor, J.), entered January 8, 2003, which denied her objections to an order of the same court (Flosky, H.E.), entered September 5, 2002, which, after a hearing, denied her petition to direct the father to reinstate health insurance coverage for the children with the Oxford Health Flan. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The Family Court properly denied the mother’s objections to the order entered September 5, 2002, since the father complied with the provisions of the parties’ separation agreement requiring him to provide health insurance for the children. Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur. 48
In a proceeding pursuant to CFLR article 75 to stay arbitration of an uninsured motor vehicle claim, the petitioner appeals from (1) an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Emerson, J.), dated November 25, 2002, which denied the petition and dismissed the proceeding, and (2) an order of the same court dated February 5, 2003, which denied its motion, denominated as one for leave to renew and reargue, but which was, in effect, for leave to reargue. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated February 5, 2003, is dismissed, as no appeal lies from an order denying leave to reargue; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated November 25, 2002, is reversed, on the law and the facts, the petition is-granted, and the arbitration is stayed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the appellants. Pursuant to the provisions of Vehicle and Traffic Law § 313 (2) (a) and (3), Nationwide Assurance Company (hereinafter Nationwide) was required to file a notice of cancellation with the Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles (hereinafter the Commissioner) no later than 30 days following the effective date of the cancellation. Having failed to do so, the termination of coverage by Nationwide was not effective with respect to the claim made by Falisha King and Latasha King arising out of the January 9, 2002, accident (see Matter of Merchants & Bus. Men’s Mut. Ins. Co. v Williams, 295 AD2d 614, 615 [2002]; Matter of Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. v Bethel, 207 AD2d 449 [1994]). Moreover, a notice of cancellation is ineffective unless in strict compliance with the requirements of Vehicle and Traffic Law § 313 (1) (a) (see Matter of Progressive Northeastern Ins. Co. v Robbins, 279 AD2d 631, 632 [2001]; Barile v Kavanaugh, 67 NY2d 392, 399 [1986]). The Nationwide notice of cancellation failed to include the statutorily-mandated statement that proof of financial security was required to be maintained throughout the registration period, as well as the notice prescribed by the Commissioner indicating the punitive effect of a failure to do so. The subject notice, which wholly omitted these statements, was ineffective on its face and inadequate to effect a cancellation (see Matter of American Home Assur. Co. v Chin, 269 AD2d 24, 27 [2000]; Dunn v Passmore, 228 AD2d 472 [1996]). As the notice of cancellation was ineffective, the policy continued in effect on the date of the accident and the Supreme Court erred in declining to stay arbitration under the uninsured motorist provision of the petitioners’ policy. Santucci, J.P, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to Mental Hygiene Law article 81, Karen W. (Anonymous) appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Leis, J.), dated April 26, 2002, as, after a hearing, denied her motion to vacate a judgment of the same court dated August 6, 1999, which, after a hearing, inter alia, found that Ida S. was an incapacitated person, appointed the petitioner, Sidney S., as guardian to manage the property and personal affairs of Ida S., and declared that a power of attorney dated March 6, 1998, in favor of Karen W. was void. Ordered that the appeal is dismissed as academic, with costs payable personally by Karen W to Sidney S. The death of Ida S. during the pendency of the appeal renders the appeal academic (see Matter of Rose BB., 246 AD2d 820, 821 [1998]; Matter of Borack, 237 AD2d 149, 150 [1997]; see also Knoer v Pace, 125 AD2d 1006 [1986]). Smith, J.E, Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a family offense proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 8, the former wife appeals from an order of the Family Court, Nassau County (Lawrence, J.), dated November 14, 2002, which, after a fact-finding hearing, granted the former husband an order of protection, and, in effect, found that the former wife had on two occasions violated a temporary order of protection of the same court dated March 20, 2002, by her behavior on March 15, 2002, and April 10, 2002, and committed her to the custody of the Nassau County Correctional Facility for consecutive terms of 30 and 10 days incarceration, respectively. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, by deleting the provisions thereof, in effect, finding that the former wife violated the temporary order of protection by her behavior on March 15, 2002, and committing her to the custody of the Nassau County Correctional Facility for a term of 30 days incarceration; as so modified, the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The Family Court erroneously found that the former wife had violated a temporary order of protection by assaulting the former husband on March 15, 2002, as the temporary order of protection was not in effect at the time of the assault. Accordingly, the Family Court did not have the authority to commit the former wife to a 30-day term of incarceration for the assault (see Family Ct Act §§ 841, 842; Alfeo v Alfeo, 306 AD2d 471 [2003]; People v Markidis, 184 Misc 2d 116 [2000]; S v S, 63 Misc 2d 1 [1970]). The former wife’s remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.E, Townes, Cozier and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a child support proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, the father appeals (1) from an order of the Family Court, Nassau County (Brennan, J.), dated March 12, 2002, which, inter alia, in effect, dismissed his objections to an order of the same court (Kahlon, H.E.), dated May 15, 2001, denying his petition for a downward modification of child support, and (2), by permission, from an order of the same court (Koenig, J.), dated October 11, 2001, which, among other things, denied his motion to quash a child support subpoena. Ordered that the orders are affirmed, with one bill of costs. Family Court Act § 439 (e) provides that an aggrieved party’s specific written objections to the final order of the Hearing Examiner must be submitted within 35 days after the mailing of the order to such party. Since it is undisputed that the father did not timely submit written objections to the Hearing Examiner’s order dated May 15, 2001, the Family Court properly refused to consider the objections on this ground. Furthermore, the Family Court properly denied the father’s motion to quash the child support subpoena (see Social Services Law § 111-b [1]). The father’s remaining contentions are without merit. Florio, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant on an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered March 1, 2000, for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate the sentence imposed and for the imposition of a new sentence so that he may file a timely notice of appeal. Upon the papers filed in support of the application and the papers filed in opposition thereto, it is, Ordered that the application is denied as academic. A timely notice of appeal was filed from the judgment and an appeal is pending in this Court. Goldstein, J.E, H. Miller, Crane and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County (Ohlig, J.), rendered January 4, 2000, convicting him of murder in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The County Court properly refused to charge the jury on manslaughter in the first degree as a lesser-included offense of the charge of murder in the second degree. There was no reasonable view of the evidence to support a finding that the defendant only intended to inflict serious physical injury on the victim (see People v Collins, 290 AD2d 457, 458 [2002]; People v Butler, 84 NY2d 627, 634-635 [1994]). The County Court properly denied the defendant’s application, in effect, to amend his CPL 250.10 notice at trial and properly refused to charge the defense of extreme emotional disturbance (see People v Almonor, 93 NY2d 571 [1999]; People v Romano, 301 AD2d 666 [2003]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County (Ohlig, J.), rendered February 10, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the first degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. A review of the record of the plea proceeding reflects that the defendant’s waiver of his right to appeal was knowing, intelligent, and voluntary (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733, 737 [1998]; People v Seaberg, 74 NY2d 1 [1989]). The defendant’s remaining contention is without merit (see People v Hickman, 276 AD2d 563, 564 [2000]; People v Mann, 258 AD2d 738, 739 [1999]). Smith, J.E, McGinity, H. Miller and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Kohm, J.), rendered July 14, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the second degree, robbery in the third degree, and grand larceny in the fourth degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. By decision and order of this Court dated February 10, 2003 [302 AD2d 471], the matter was remitted to the Supreme Court, Queens County, to hear and determine the issues raised in that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was to suppress identification testimony, and the appeal was held in abeyance in the interim. The Supreme Court, Queens County (Mc-Cann, J.), has now issued its report. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The factual findings and credibility determinations of a hearing court are accorded great deference on appeal, and will not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Evans, 298 AD2d 401 [2002]; People v Fryar, 276 AD2d 641 [2000]; People v Overton, 188 AD2d 491, 492 [1992]). The evidence adduced at the suppression hearing supports the Supreme Court’s denial of that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was to suppress identification testimony. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, he was not in police custody when the complainants unequivocally identified him during a canvass of the area where the crime occurred (see People v Bora, 83 NY2d 531 [1994]). We also find no merit to the defendant’s argument that the identification was the result of unduly suggestive police procedures (see People v Dixon, 225 AD2d 791 [1996]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The'defendant’s remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Florio, J.E, Friedmann, Cozier and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Application by appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated May 30, 1995 (People v Brown, 215 AD2d 772 [1995]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Bangs County, rendered April 21, 1993. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, PJ, Ritter, Goldstein and Friedmann, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Lewis, J.), rendered April 23, 2002, convicting him of attempted robbery in the first degree, after a nonjury trial, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his guilt of attempted robbery in the first degree is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10 [1995]; People v Udzinski, 146 AD2d 245 [1989]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). Ritter, J.P, Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County (Braslow, J), rendered December 3, 2001, convicting him of attempted robbery in the first degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). Santueci, J.P, Goldstein, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Greenberg, J.), rendered May 14, 2002, convicting him of burglary in the second degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s valid waiver of his right to appeal precludes review of his challenge to the factual adequacy of his plea allocution (see People v Callahan, 80 NY2d 273 [1992]; People v Dewitt, 295 AD2d 937 [2002]; People v Santiago, 280 AD2d 688 [2001]; People v Bruno, 269 AD2d 540 [2000]), as well as his claim that he was denied his statutory right to a speedy trial pursuant to CPL 30.30 (see People v Dewitt, supra; People v Smith, 271 AD2d 703 [2000]; People v Love, 236 AD2d 488 [1997] ). Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the Supreme Court properly denied his motion to vacate his plea of guilty. The defendant knowingly, intelligently, and voluntarily pleaded guilty, and the record does not support his conclusory claims of coercion and ineffective assistance of counsel (see People v Carter, 304 AD2d 771 [2003]; People v Telfair, 299 AD2d 429 [2002]; People v Potter, 294 AD2d 603 [2002]). The defendant’s remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Ritter, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Crane, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Barros, J.), rendered January 9, 2002, convicting him of burglary in the second degree (two counts), upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review (see People v Curry, 301 AD2d 658 [2003]; People v Owens, 294 AD2d 603 [2002]) or waived pursuant to the terms of his negotiated plea agreement (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733 [1998]). In any event, his contentions are without merit (see People v Garcia, 247 AD2d 549 [1998], affd 92 NY2d 726 [1999], cert denied 528 US 845 [1999]; People v Johnson, 254 AD2d 49 [1998] ). Ritter, J.E, Goldstein, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeals by the defendant (1) from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Cooperman, J.), rendered October 11, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the first degree and endangering the welfare of a child under Indictment No. 2341/99, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence, (2) from a judgment of the same court, also rendered October 11, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the first degree under Indictment No. 2342/99, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence, and (3), by permission, from an order of the same court dated August 12, 2002, which denied his motion pursuant to CPL 440.10 to vacate the judgments of conviction on the ground that he received ineffective assistance of counsel. Ordered that the judgments and the order are affirmed. The first of the two indictments relates to a knife-point robbery that occurred in a comic book store on August 9, 1999, in the presence of a six-year-old child. The second indictment also relates to a knifepoint robbery that occurred in a delicatessen two days later, on August 11, 1999. At the trial, the defendant was identified in court as the perpetrator of both robberies by the two different victims of these two similar crimes. A retired police officer also identified the defendant as the man whom, immediately after the August 11, 1999, robbery, he observed being chased across Metropolitan Avenue by the owner of the delicatessen. The owner of the delicatessen testified before the grand jury and at a pretrial hearing that he recognized the defendant as the perpetrator of the August 11, 1999, robbery because he had seen the defendant inside, or in the vicinity of, the delicatessen on several occasions over the course of about two to four years preceding the date of the robbery. The last such occasion was about four months prior to the date of the delicatessen robbery. At the trial, this witness admitted that he had been told by the prosecutor that it was not possible that the defendant was the man who had visited the delicatessen on those prior occasions. The witness conceded that the man he saw on such prior occasions was “maybe the same person, maybe another person.” During the course of the defendant’s case, the defense counsel introduced evidence establishing that the defendant had previously been convicted of assault in the second degree and was incarcerated on that conviction from June 1, 1992 until May 28, 1999 (that is, until approximately 2V2 months before the robbery on August 11, 1999). This tactic was evidently based on counsel’s assessment that the prejudice that would inure to the defendant as a result of the jury’s discovery of the prior conviction was outweighed by the advantage that he would gain by demonstrating the inaccuracy of the complaining witness’ prior statements to the effect that he had seen the defendant in or near the delicatessen on several occasions, including at some point in April 1999, approximately four months prior to the robbery on August 11, 1999, and during the course of the preceding two to four years. On appeal, the defendant argues that his trial attorney was ineffective for failing to assert the existence of this “defense,” helpful only in the case arising out of the delicatessen robbery, and obviously counterproductive in the case of the robbery of the comic book store, in opposition to the People’s motion to consolidate the prosecution of the two indictments. We do not agree that reversal is warranted based on any claimed ineffective assistance of trial counsel. The defendant’s argument is based on the premise that the People’s motion for consolidation would necessarily have been denied had the defendant’s attorney advised the trial court of his intent to demonstrate the unreliability of the complaining witness in the delicatessen robbery by introducing evidence of the defendant’s prior incarceration, and had the defendant’s attorney also argued that this same evidence would have no relevance to, and would unduly prejudice the defense in the comic book store case. However, the question of whether to consolidate two indictments (see CPL 200.20 [2] [c]; [4]) is one committed to the sound discretion of the trial court, which must “weigh the public interest in avoiding duplicative, lengthy and expensive trials against the defendant’s interest in being protected from unfair disadvantage” (People v Lane, 56 NY2d 1, 8 [1982]; People v Gonzalez, 229 AD2d 398, 398-399 [1996]). “[I]n all cases a strong public policy favors joinder, because it expedites the judicial process, reduces court congestion, and avoids the necessity of recalling witnesses” (People v Mahboubian, 74 NY2d 174, 183 [1989]). If, in opposing the People’s motion for consolidation, the defendant expressed an intent to introduce evidence of his own prior lengthy incarceration in order to impeach the credibility of the testimony of the victim of the delicatessen robbery, the defendant would have been attempting to assert a very risky “defense” that was capable of doing at least as much harm as good in regard to his chances of acquittal in that case. The trial court, in reviewing the People’s motion to consolidate notwithstanding opposition based on an announced intent to assert such a questionable defense, would not have abused its discretion in granting the motion. The two cases were properly join-able (see CPL 200.20 [2] [c]; People v Marengo, 276 AD2d 358 [2000]; cf. People v Kirk, 290 AD2d 805 [2002]). The People’s right to such joinder would not necessarily have been defeated had the defense counsel asserted that it was his intent to employ this defense, which the trial court would likely have been justifiably skeptical of, given that this defense had an inculpatory aspect that a reasonable person might find at least as significant, if not more significant than its exculpatory one (cf. People v Rodriguez, 91 AD2d 591 [1982]). The defendant also argues that his trial attorney had no reason to elicit, both from the owner of the delicatessen and from a police officer investigating that robbery, the circumstances surrounding a photographic identification that the witness made shortly after the robbery. We agree with the People that the defendant’s trial attorney may have decided that introduction of testimony relating to the photographic identification would permit him to dwell on the loss of the photo array by police, and to argue, as he in fact later did in summation, that a “main piece of evidence” got “lost in the shuffle.” Also, counsel’s inquiry in this area resulted in a concession from the owner of the delicatessen that he “was not 100 per cent” sure that the defendant (as depicted in the photograph) was the robber. Under these circumstances, “counsel’s decision to risk use of the photo array evidence was at most a mistaken judgment as to trial strategy and cannot be characterized as ineffective assistance of counsel” (People v Jackson, 52 NY2d 1027, 1029 [1981]). In reviewing the defendant’s claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, the focus must be on the “fairness of the process as a whole” (People v Henry, 95 NY2d 563, 566 [2000]; People v Benevento, 91 NY2d 708, 714 [1998]). “The question is whether the attorney’s conduct constituted ‘egregious and prejudicial’ error such that defendant did not receive a fair trial” (People v Benevento, supra at 713, quoting People v Flores, 84 NY2d 184, 188-189 [1994]; see People v Chicas, 293 AD2d 687 [2002]; People v Quinones, 256 AD2d 634, 635 [1998]; People v Sullivan, 153 AD2d 223, 227 [1990]). In our view, the defendant received a fundamentally fair trial in this case, and reversal is not warranted based on ineffective assistance of counsel. Prudenti, EJ., Townes, Mastro and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated April 8, 2002 (People v Devorce, 293 AD2d 550 [2002]), affirming a judgment of the County Court, Westchester County, rendered September 15, 1998. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Smith, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Feldman, J.), rendered May 10, 2001, convicting him of murder in the first degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. The appeal brings up for review the denial, after a hearing, of that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was to suppress his statements to law enforcement officials. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the Supreme Court properly denied that branch of his omnibus motion which was to suppress inculpatory statements he made after his arrest. There is no basis for disturbing the factual findings and credibility determinations of the hearing court, which are entitled to great deference on appeal (see People v Faison, 268 AD2d 487 [2000]; People v Guarino, 267 AD2d 324 [1999]). The totality of the circumstances indicates that the statements were voluntarily made after the defendant knowingly and voluntarily waived his Miranda rights (see Miranda v Arizona, 384 US 436 [1966]; People v Malik, 265 AD2d 577 [1999]; People v Springer, 221 AD2d 386 [1995]). Further, the credible evidence demonstrates that the defendant was not denied his right to counsel. The Supreme Court’s charge to the jury adequately conveyed the proper standards regarding the voluntariness of the defendant’s statements (see People v Prater, 258 AD2d 600 [1999]; People v Burgos, 244 AD2d 563 [1997]). The Supreme Court erred in modifying its Sandoval (People v Sandoval, 34 NY2d 371 [1974]) ruling to permit the prosecutor to question the defendant about a prior conviction which the Supreme Court had previously ruled was to be excluded. Contrary to the People’s contention, the defendant did not “open the door” to such questioning. However, the error in permitting the questioning was harmless (see People v Crimmins, 36 NY2d 230, 241-242 [1975]; People v Beaumont, 170 AD2d 513 [1991]). The evidence of the defendant’s guilt was overwhelming. After his arrest, the defendant gave an oral statement to a detective, reduced to writing and signed by him, in which he admitted that he shot the two victims. He subsequently gave an approximately 50-minute videotaped statement to an assistant district attorney. The videotape reveals that the defendant was alert and readily provided extensive details of the events preceding the shootings, the shootings themselves, and subsequent events, including the fact that a girl named “Cin” came to retrieve the gun used in the shootings and return it to the defendant’s friend. His statements were corroborated by the testimony of Marcus Malloy who, according to the defendant, was present when the second victim was shot. Cindy Jean, another witness, testified that her former boyfriend asked her to pick up something about the time of the shootings, that she went to an apartment where she saw the defendant, and that she was given a McDonald’s bag wrapped in a plastic bag. That testimony was consistent with the defendant’s statement regarding the disposal of the gun. There was further testimony from a detective that the defendant spontaneously made another inculpatory statement approximately 18 months after his arrest when the detective was with him at the Kings County District Attorney’s office. The defendant stated that he 'knew what he did was wrong and that he could do 15 years, but could not do 20 years. There is no significant probability that the jury would have acquitted the defendant but for the Supreme Court’s error in modifying its Sandoval ruling. The fact that the jury acquitted the defendant of one of the murders does not, as the dissent suggests, indicate that the jury accepted at least part of his testimony disavowing his postarrest statements. The jury considered two counts of murder in the first degree, one as to each of the victims. The jury was charged, pursuant to Penal Law § 125.27 (1) (a) (viii) and (b), that “a defendant is guilty of murder in the first degree when with intent to cause the death of another person, he causes the death of [that] person and as part of the same criminal transaction . . . with intent to cause serious physical injury to or the death of an additional person he causes the death of that additional person provided that neither victim was a participant in the criminal action, and that the defendant was more than 18 years old at the time of the crime.” The defendant was acquitted of the murder of the first victim, but convicted of the murder of the second victim, which occurred approximately an hour and 20 minutes later. Based on the defendant’s statements, the jury could have concluded that he only intended to injure the first victim, while he intended to kill the second victim, resulting in his acquittal with respect to the first shooting and conviction as to the second. Since the error which occurred was harmless, reversal is not warranted (see People v Crimmins, supra; People v Beaumont, supra). Altman, J.E, Krausman and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Tomei, J.), rendered November 13, 2001, convicting him of murder in the second degree, attempted murder in the second degree, assault in the first degree, and criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the count of depraved indifference murder {see Penal Law § 125.25 [2]) should not have been submitted to the jury is unpreserved for appellate review {see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Bynum, 70 NY2d 858 [1987]) and we decline to reach it in the exercise of our interest of justice jurisdiction. Altman, J.P., Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Ruchelsman, J.), rendered January 9, 2001, convicting him of robbery in the first degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. The appeal brings up for review the denial, after a hearing, of those branches of the defendant’s omnibus motion which were to suppress identification and physical evidence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant contends that certain evidence should have been suppressed as the product of his allegedly illegal arrest or of an allegedly illegal search of the automobile in which he was a passenger. However, the defendant lacks standing to seek suppression of property seized from the person of his accomplice (see People v Morales, 116 AD2d 671 [1986]), and he failed to establish that he had a reasonable expectation of privacy in the automobile (see People v Ponder, 54 NY2d 160 [1981]; People v Collier, 107 AD2d 754 [1985]; People v Cacioppo, 104 AD2d 559 [1984]). Accordingly, that branch of his motion which was to suppress physical evidence was properly denied. The defendant contends that the court erred in failing to suppress testimony regarding an alleged showup identification by the complainant at the scene of the crime. However, as the People did not offer evidence at the trial of an identification of the defendant by the complainant, his contention is academic (see People v Woodberry, 176 AD2d 770 [1991]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contention is without merit (see People v Moise, 1 AD3d 464 [2003] [decided herewith]). Goldstein, J.E, Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated April 24, 2000 (People v Guo Fai Liu, 271 AD2d 695 [2000]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County, rendered August 19, 1997. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, PJ., Ritter, Santucci and Altman, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County (Weber, J.), rendered March 2, 2001, convicting him of attempted murder in the second degree, robbery in the first degree (two counts), robbery in the second degree, and assault in the first degree (two counts), upon a jury verdict, and sentencing him to terms of imprisonment of 25 years on the conviction of attempted murder in the second degree, concurrent terms of imprisonment of 25 years on each conviction of robbery in the first degree to run consecutively to the sentence imposed on the attempted murder conviction, concurrent terms of imprisonment of 25 years on each conviction of assault in the first degree to run consecutively to the sentences imposed on the attempted murder and robbery convictions, and 15 years on the conviction of robbery in the second degree to run concurrently with all of the other sentences. The appeal brings up for review the denial, after a hearing, of that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was tó suppress statements made by him to the police. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, by providing that the sentences imposed on the convictions of attempted murder in the second degree, robbery in the first degree (two counts), and assault in the first degree (two counts), shall run concurrently to each other; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed. The County Court erred in allowing a police officer to testify regarding the defendant’s admission that he previously possessed the shotgun used in the robbery. The People did not carry their initial burden of establishing that the defendant voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waived his Miranda rights before making the statement while in custody (see Miranda v Arizona, 384 US 436 [1966]; People v Anderson, 42 NY2d 35, 38 [1977]; People v Diaz, 291 AD2d 409 [2002]). However, in light of the overwhelming evidence of the defendant’s guilt, the admission of the statement constituted harmless error and reversal is not warranted (see People v Crimmins, 36 NY2d 230, 237 [1975]). The statements made by the codefendant Janerio Hardy during his plea allocution were properly admitted at the trial as a declaration against penal interest to establish that during the course of the robbery the defendant was aided by another person actually present (see Penal Law § 160.10 [1]; People v Brensic, 70 NY2d 9 [1987]; People v Thomas, 68 NY2d 194 [1986], cert denied 480 US 948 [1987]). Further, the County Court providently exercised its discretion in admitting a police officer’s testimony concerning his investigation. The testimony was admitted not for its truth, but to provide background information as to how and why the police developed a case against the defendant (see People v Tosca, 98 NY2d 660, 661 [2002]). The defendant correctly contends that the County Court erred in imposing consecutive sentences on the attempted murder conviction, the first degree robbery convictions and the assault convictions. Under the facts of this case, those convictions were essentially based upon the same acts (see Penal Law § 70.25 [2]). Thus, the sentences imposed have been modified accordingly. As modified, the sentences are not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are unpreserved for appellate review, and in any event, without merit. Santucci, J.P, Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Blumenfeld, J), rendered May 28, 2002, convicting him of criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree (three counts) and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree (three counts), upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. The appeal brings up for review the denial, after a hearing (Demakos, J.), of that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was to suppress physical evidence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The Supreme Court properly denied that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was to suppress certain physical evidence (see People v Ocasio, 85 NY2d 982 [1995]; People v Bora, 83 NY2d 531 [1994]; People v Reyes, 83 NY2d 945 [1994], cert denied 513 US 991 [1994]). Ritter, J.R, Goldstein, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Copertino, J.), rendered November 15, 1999, convicting him of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contentions are largely unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]). In any event, they are without merit. The charge to the jury was properly balanced, as the court instructed it that the defendant was an interested witness, and that it was free to find that any witnesses, including the prosecution’s witnesses, were interested witnesses (see People v McCray, 204 AD2d 490 [1994]). Furthermore, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be given to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86, 88 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contentions, including those raised in his supplemental pro se brief, are without merit. Ritter, J.P, Florio, S. Miller and Luciano, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Ruchelsman, J.), rendered December 12, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the first degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed (see People v Moise, 1 AD3d 464 [2003] [decided herewith]). Goldstein, J.P., Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the People from an order of the County Court, Orange County (DeRosa, J.), dated August 6, 2002, which granted that branch of the omnibus motion of the defendant Lynne DiCostanzo which was to dismiss the indictment against her. Ordered that the order is affirmed. The defendant Lynne DiCostanzo, a physician, was employed by the defendant, Hudson Valley Obstetrics & Gynecology, EC. (hereinafter Hudson Valley). DiCostanzo was hired by the defendant, Paul S. Mayer, who was Hudson Valley’s chief executive officer. Mayer was a physician who specialized in the practice of obstetrics and gynecology before his license was revoked in November 2000 (see People v Mayer, 1 AD3d 461 [2003] [decided herewith]). Thereafter, Mayer was indicted for, inter alia, his alleged continued practice of medicine in violation of Education Law § 6521, and DiCostanzo was indicted on one count of aiding and abetting Mayer in such practice. The County Court granted that branch of DiCostanzo’s omnibus motion which was to dismiss the indictment against her. We affirm. “[On a motion to dismiss an indictment], the sufficiency of the People’s presentation is properly determined by inquiring whether the evidence viewed in the light most favorable to the People, if unexplained and uncontradicted, would warrant conviction by a petit jury” (People v Jennings, 69 NY2d 103, 114 [1986]; see People v Jensen, 86 NY2d 248, 251 [1995]). Here the evidence submitted to the grand jury was insufficient to support the indictment. The charges against DiCostanzo resulted from an incident which occurred on April 12, 2001, when she allegedly permitted Mayer to assist her in the performance of a gynecological procedure at Hudson Valley. However, while Mayer was present at Hudson Valley’s offices on April 12, 2001, his alleged actual participation in the procedure at issue took place during a period when DiCostanzo was not present in the room. Moreover, there is no proof that DiCostanzo was aware of Mayer’s participation, if any, in the procedure. Accordingly, the proof was insufficient to conclude that DiCostanzo “solicited], requested], command[ed], importun[ed] or intentionally aid[ed]” Mayer in the illegal practice of medicine (Penal Law § 20.00; cf. People v Varas, 110 AD2d 646 [1985]). Therefore, DiCostanzo was entitled to dismissal of the indictment against her. Santucci, J.E, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the People from an order of the County Court, Orange County (DeRosa, J.), dated August 12, 2002, which granted that branch of the omnibus motion of the defendants Paul S. Mayer and Hudson Valley Obstetrics & Gynecology, PC., which was to dismiss the indictment against them. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, that branch of the omnibus motion which was to dismiss the indictment against the defendants Paul S. Mayer and Hudson Valley Obstetrics & Gynecology, PC., is denied, the indictment against those defendants is reinstated, and the matter is remitted to the County Court, Orange County, for trial before a different judge. The defendant Paul S. Mayer was a physician specializing in obstetrics and gynecology before his license was revoked by the New York State Board for Professional Misconduct (hereinafter the Board). As detailed in two prior decisions of the Appellate Division, Third Department (see Matter of Mayer v Novello, 288 AD2d 780 [2001], revd 99 NY2d 180 [2002], on remand 303 AD2d 909 [2003]), Mayer was found guilty of a number of allegations of professional misconduct. Mayer commenced a CPLR article 78 proceeding challenging the Board’s determination. The Third Department granted the petition and annulled the revocation, finding that the Hearing Committee had been improperly composed of three medical practitioners (288 AD2d 780 [2001]). On appeal, the Court of Appeals reversed (99 NY2d 180 [2002]), and on remittitur, the Third Department ultimately upheld the revocation (303 AD2d 909 [2003]). After Mayer received notice of the Board’s determination, while his petition was pending before the Third Department, he obtained a temporary stay of enforcement of the revocation order. Mayer’s application for a stay was later denied by order dated November 9, 2000. On November 14, 2000, an assistant district attorney served a copy of that order on Mayer’s attorney, along with a letter informing him that the temporary stay would be vacated at the close of business on November 24, 2000. Mayer, nonetheless, continued to see patients at Hudson Valley Obstetrics & Gynecology, EC. (hereinafter Hudson Valley), his employer, after November 24, 2000. The Orange County District Attorney’s Office commenced a grand jury investigation into Mayer’s unauthorized practice of medicine, and on February 25, 2002, an indictment was filed charging Mayer and Hudson Valley with seven counts of unauthorized practice of medicine, six counts of insurance fraud in the fifth degree, and six counts of petit larceny. Mayer and Hudson Valley moved to dismiss the indictment on the grounds of legal impossibility by virtue of the annulment, lack of notice based on the failure to comply with Education Law § 6510 (4) (c) and Public Health Law § 230 (10) (h), and legally insufficient evidence that Mayer engaged in the practice of medicine. After conducting an in camera inspection of the grand jury minutes, the County Court granted that branch of the omnibus motion which was to dismiss the indictment against Mayer and Hudson Valley. We reverse. The County Court erroneously concluded that the crimes charged under counts 1 and 7 alleging unauthorized practice of medicine on April 12, 2001, and June 9, 2001, respectively, were legally impossible. Although at the time the case was presented to the grand jury on February 6, 2002, and February 7, 2002, the Board’s determination revoking Mayer’s license was annulled, the Board’s revocation was ultimately upheld. In any event, the County Court mistakenly ignored the fact that the appeal of the Appellate Division’s order to the Court of Appeals automatically stayed enforcement of the order (see CPLR 5519 [a] [1]; Matter of Mayer v Novello, 97 NY2d 746 [2002]). Further, we disagree with the County Court’s conclusion that the evidence before the grand jury was legally insufficient to establish that Mayer knew that revocation of his license was to take effect after November 24, 2000. The court mistakenly applied the service requirements of Education Law § 6510 (4) (c) and Public Health Law § 230 (10) (h), which require service of the Board’s determination on the licensee personally or by certitled mail, to the Appellate Division’s order denying the application for a stay. It is undisputed that Mayer was served by certified mail with a copy of the Board’s determination revoking his license. It is also undisputed that a copy of the Appellate Division’s order denying the stay application was served on Mayer’s attorney. Failure to serve Mayer with a copy of the Appellate Division’s order did not violate Education Law § 6510 (4) (c) and Public Health Law § 230 (10) (h), since those provisions apply only to the Board’s determination. Evidence of the mailing of the assistant district attorney’s November 14, 2000, letter, along with her testimony to such effect, was sufficient evidence to establish notice of the effective date of revocation (see People v Jensen, 86 NY2d 248 [1995]; People v Jennings, 69 NY2d 103 [1986]; People v Twine, 202 AD2d 613 [1994]). Under CPLR 2103, delivery is presumed upon proper mailing (see CPLR 2103; Strober King Bldg. Supply Ctrs. v Merkley, 266 AD2d 203 [1999]). Accordingly, dismissal of counts 2 through 6 was erroneous. Dismissal of various counts based on legally insufficient evidence that Mayer engaged in the unauthorized practice of medicine was also error. It is well established that on a motion to dismiss an indictment, the court’s role is limited to determining “whether the evidence viewed in the light most favorable to the People, if unexplained and uncontradicted, would warrant conviction by a petit jury” (People v Jensen, supra at 251 [internal quotation marks omitted]; see People v Jennings, supra at 114). “Legally sufficient” is “competent evidence which, if accepted as true, would establish every element of an offense charged and the defendant’s commission thereof” {People v Jensen, supra at 252 [internal quotation marks omitted]; see People v Jennings, supra; CPL 70.10). Documentary evidence in the form of insurance claim forms submitted by Mayer for reimbursement, buttressed in most instances with testimonial evidence by patients, showed that Mayer engaged in conduct ranging from the performance of routine gynecological examinations to the performance of an elective abortion. The grand jury could certainly conclude from this evidence that Mayer had engaged in the unauthorized practice of medicine {see Education Law § 6521). Dismissal of counts 8 through 19, which was predicated on the dismissal of the underlying counts 1 through 7, therefore, was also error. Santucci, J.E, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Rockland County (Resnik, J.), rendered September 25, 2001, convicting him of criminal possession of marijuana in the third degree and unlawful possession of marijuana, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. To the extent that the defendant argues that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish the possession element of criminal possession of marijuana in the third degree, his contention is not preserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86, 88 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). Ritter, J.R, Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Ruchelsman, J.), rendered December 12, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the first degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant contends that the prosecutor’s race-neutral explanation for the peremptory challenge to one of the prospective jurors was pretextual and should have been rejected by the trial court. However, a trial court’s conclusion that a facially race-neutral explanation is not pretextual should be accorded great deference on appeal (see Hernandez v New York, 500 US 352 [1991]; People v Wilson, 278 AD2d 519 [2000]), and we find no basis on this record to disturb the finding of the trial court. The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are either unpreserved for appellate review, without merit, or do not require reversal of the judgment. Goldstein, J.E, Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated July 8, 1996 (People v Morris, 229 AD2d 451 [1996]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered April 11, 1994. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, EJ., Santucci, Florio and Smith, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Flaherty, J.), rendered December 21, 1998, convicting him of murder in the second degree, robbery in the first degree, and criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon a juiy verdict, and imposing sentence. The appeal brings up for review the denial, without a hearing, of that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was to suppress physical evidence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the Supreme Court properly denied, without a hearing, that branch of his motion which was to suppress money recovered from stereo speakers in his girlfriend’s apartment as being the fruit of an illegal warrantless search. Even assuming, arguendo, that the defendant established standing to seek suppression of the evidence (see People v Ramirez-Portoreal, 88 NY2d 99 [1996]; People v Ponder, 54 NY2d 160 [1981]), his motion papers, including those submitted on reargument, failed to controvert or even address the People’s contention that the search was conducted pursuant to the valid consent of the defendant’s girlfriend (see CPL 710.60 [3] [b]; People v Obee, 299 AD2d 426 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 584 [2003]; see also People v Mendoza, 82 NY2d 415 [1993]; People v Kennedy, 284 AD2d 346 [2001]). The defendant’s remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and Luciano, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant, as limited by his motion, from so much of a sentence of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Angiolillo, J.), imposed February 28, 2002, as issued an order of protection to remain in effect until April 28, 2008. Ordered that the sentence is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, for a new determination of the duration of the order of protection, taking into account the defendant’s jail-time credit. The court’s determination of the duration of the order of protection issued at sentencing pursuant to CPL 530.13 (4) should have taken into account the defendant’s jail-time credit. The matter therefore must be remitted to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, for a new determination of the duration of the order of protection, taking into account the defendant’s jail-time credit (see People v Nieves, 305 AD2d 520 [2003], lv granted 100 NY2d 564 [2003]). Prudenti, EJ., Florio, Krausman, H. Miller and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County (Jonas, J.), rendered June 5, 1996, convicting him of assault in the first degree, reckless endangerment in the second degree, criminal use of a firearm in the second degree, and criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the court properly denied in an order dated November 16, 1995, his application for a telephone to be installed in his cell. Although the defendant asserts that he needed a telephone installed in his cell in order to conduct an unimpeded investigation, he was afforded an investigator who could assist him in producing witnesses and conducting his investigation. The defendant made no assertions that his investigator’s performance was unsatisfactory. Accordingly, the defendant did not establish that he was prejudiced by not having a telephone in his cell (see People v Bosket, 216 AD2d 791, 794 [1995]; People v Marlowe, 167 AD2d 692 [1990]; People v Hendy, 159 AD2d 250 [1990]). The defendant’s remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review, without merit, or not properly before this Court. Altman, J.E, Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
Application by the respondent for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated January 21, 2003 (People v Rodriguez, 301 AD2d 616 [2003]), reversing a sentence of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, imposed September 6, 2000, and remitting the matter to that court for further proceedings consistent with the decision and order. Ordered that the application is denied. The respondent has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Florio, J.E, Krausman, Adams and Crane, JJ., concur.
Appeals by the defendant from (1) a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Hanophy, J.), rendered June 7, 2001, convicting him of murder in the second degree (two counts), robbery in the first degree, and tampering with physical evidence, upon a jury verdict, and sentencing him to concurrent terms of 25 years’ to life imprisonment for the convictions of murder in the second degree, a term of 25 years’ imprisonment for the conviction of robbery in the first degree to run consecutive to the term of imprisonment imposed for the convictions of murder in the second degree, and a term of 2 to 4 years’ imprisonment for the conviction of tampering with physical evidence to run consecutive to the other terms of imprisonment, under Indictment No. 3962/98, and (2) an amended judgment of the same court rendered June 15, 2001, revoking a sentence of probation previously imposed by the same court upon a finding that he violated a condition thereof, upon his admission, and imposing a sentence of imprisonment upon his previous conviction of attempted robbery in the second degree, under Indictment No. 772/98. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, by deleting the provision thereof directing that the terms of imprisonment imposed for murder in the second degree (count one) and robbery in the first degree (count four) shall run consecutive to each other and substituting therefor a provision directing that the terms of imprisonment imposed for those counts are to run concurrently with each other; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that the amended judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the Supreme Court properly declined to charge the jury on the affirmative defense of duress (see People v Lane, 112 AD2d 247, 248 [1985]; People v Amato, 99 AD2d 495, 496 [1984]; People v Irby, 61 AD2d 386, 401-402 [1978], mod 47 NY2d 894 [1979]). As the People correctly , concede, the Supreme Court erred in directing that the term of imprisonment imposed on the conviction of murder in the second degree (count one) run consecutive to the term of imprisonment imposed on the conviction of robbery in the first degree (count four) (see Penal Law 70.25 [2]; People v Laureano, 87 NY2d 640 [1996]). Accordingly, we modify the judgment to direct that those sentences run concurrently with each other. The defendant’s remaining contention is, in part, unpreserved for appellate review and, in any event, does not warrant reversal (see People v Spratley, 237 AD2d 545, 546 [1997]; People v Miller, 220 AD2d 778 [1995]). Smith, J.P., Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County (Ohlig, J.), rendered March 25, 1999, convicting him of burglary in the second degree (three counts), upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, and a new trial is ordered. An indigent defendant has a constitutional right to a free copy of transcripts of a pretrial suppression hearing and a prior trial (see People v Sanders, 31 NY2d 463,466 [1973]; People v Zabrocky, 26 NY2d 530, 536 [1970]). Denial of this right “requires a reversal of the judgment of conviction, even though no prejudice be shown and ‘[r]egardless of the nature and quantum of proof against’ him” (People v Sanders, supra at 466). “[W]hen a defendant requests a transcript and when that request is accompanied by an affidavit of indigency, the State must honor that request” (People v Montgomery, 18 NY2d 993, 994 [1966]). In this case, the trial court denied the defendant’s motion for a free copy of the transcripts of his first trial and suppression hearing because he had retained counsel. Although the defendant submitted an affidavit attesting to his status as an indigent, and his attorney affirmed that his fees were being paid for by the defendant’s family and friends, the trial court found that the defendant was not indigent. We disagree. A defendant’s status as an indigent is not altered merely because his or her family and friends retain private counsel to represent him or her at trial (see Fullan v Commissioner of Corrections of State of N.Y., 891 F2d 1007 [1989], cert denied 496 US 942 [1990]; New Jersey v Morgenstein, 147 NJ Super 234, 371 A2d 96 [1977]). In light of our determination, we do not reach the defendant’s remaining contention. Ritter, J.P, Florio, S. Miller and Luciano, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendant T & C Tropical Products, Inc., appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Bangs County (Huttner, J.), dated August 14, 2001, as, sua sponte, in effect, modified an order of the same court dated May 23, 2001, by deleting the provision thereof granting its motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it and substituting therefor a provision granting the motion only to the extent of dismissing the cause of action pursuant to Vehicle and Traffic Law § 388. Ordered that on the Court’s own motion, the notice of appeal is treated as an application for leave to appeal, and leave to appeal is granted; and it further, Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, and the provision of the order dated May 23, 2001, granting the motion of the defendant T & C Tropical Products, Inc., for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it is reinstated. In an order dated May 23, 2001, the Supreme Court granted the motion of the defendant T & C Tropical Products, Inc. (hereinafter T & C), for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it. It also granted the plaintiffs cross motion for leave to serve an amended complaint containing a cause of action for negligent entrustment against T & C. In the order appealed from, the Supreme Court considered the scope of its May 23, 2001, order, and indicated that only the cause of action in the original complaint pursuant to Vehicle and Traffic Law § 388 had been dismissed against T & C. However, the May 23, 2001, order clearly provided that all causes of action against T & C in the original complaint had been dismissed and, furthermore, the plaintiff never asserted a claim pursuant to Vehicle and Traffic Law § 388 in its original complaint. Accordingly, we reverse the order dated August 14, 2001, insofar as appealed from, and we reinstate the provision of the order dated May 23, 2001, granting T & C’s motion for summary judgment insofar as asserted against it. The only remaining claim against T & C, as asserted in the plaintiffs amended complaint, is to recover damages for negligent entrustment. Altman, J.E, S. Miller, Adams and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action for a judgment declaring that the defendant third-party plaintiff, Utica First Insurance Company, is obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiff, Bassuk Bros., Inc., in an underlying action entitled Miah v Bassuk Bros., pending in the Supreme Court, Kings County, under Index No. 45300/99, the plaintiff and the third-party defendant, Legion Insurance Company, appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Dowd, J.), dated November 1, 2002, as denied their motion, inter alia, for leave to amend the complaint and the third-party answer, and granted the cross motion of the defendant third-party plaintiff for summary judgment declaring that it is not obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiff in the underlying action and to reimburse the third-party defendant for indemnity payments made on behalf of the plaintiff. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Kings County, for the entry of a judgment declaring that Utica First Insurance Company is not obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiff in the underlying action and to reimburse the third-party defendant for indemnity payments made on behalf of the plaintiff. The defendant third-party plaintiff, Utica First Insurance Company (hereinafter Utica), issued a general liability insurance policy to the P-K De-Ma Painting and General Construction Corp. (hereinafter P-K) which contained an exclusion for “bodily injury to an employee of an Insured if it occurs in the course of employment.” A P-K employee was injured in the course of his employment and sued the manager of the property where the accident occurred, the plaintiff, Bassuk Bros., Inc. (hereinafter Bassuk). Bassuk commenced this action against Utica, seeking a declaration that Utica defend and indemnify it as a potential additional insured under the Utica policy. The Supreme Court determined that Utica is not so obligated. An exclusion from coverage “must be specific and clear in order to be enforced” (Seaboard Sur. Co. v Gillette Co., 64 NY2d 304, 311 [1984]), and an ambiguity in an exclusionary clause must be construed most strongly against the insurer (see Ace Wire & Cable Co. v Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 60 NY2d 390, 398 [1983]; Thomas J. Lipton, Inc. v Liberty Mut. Ins. Co., 34 NY2d 356, 361 [1974]). However, an unambiguous policy provision must be accorded its plain and ordinary meaning (see Sanabria v American Home Assur. Co., 68 NY2d 866 [1986]), and the court may not disregard the plain meaning of the policy’s language in order to find an ambiguity where none exists (see Acorn Ponds v Hartford Ins. Co., 105 AD2d 723, 724 [1984]). The plain meaning of the exclusion was to relieve Utica of liability when an insured or additional insured was sued or contribution was requested for damages arising out of bodily injury to an employee sustained in the course of employment. Therefore, the Supreme Court properly determined that Utica was not required to defend or indemnify Bassuk. The parties’ remaining contentions are without merit. Since this is an action for a declaratory judgment, we remit the matter to the Supreme Court, Kings County, for the entry of an appropriate judgment (see Lanza v Wagner, 11 NY2d 317, 334 [1962], appeal dismissed 371 US 74 [1962], cert denied 371 US 901 [1962]). Smith, J.E, Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to enforce the covenants and restrictions in a deed to certain property, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Molia, J.), dated February 27, 2003, which denied its motion, among other things, to compel the escrow agent to transfer the deed to the subject premises from the defendant Eastern Baptist Association of New York, Inc., to the defendant First Church of God In Christ of Great Neck, New York, Inc. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. Under the circumstances of this case, the Supreme Court properly denied the plaintiffs motion. We note that we have not considered the brief purportedly submitted on behalf of the defendant First Church of God In Christ of Great Neck, New York, Inc. (see CPLR 321 [a]). Krausman, J.E, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Baisley, J.), dated January 18, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Justice Friedmann has been substituted for the late Justice O’Brien (see 22 NYCRR 670.1 [c]). Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is denied, and the complaint is reinstated. The plaintiff Antoinette DeGruccio (hereinafter the plaintiff) tripped and fell in a pothole-type defect in the parking lot of a small shopping center that had been purchased by the defendant, 863 Jericho Turnpike Corp., about one month earlier. The plaintiff stated that she parked her car in a spot perpendicular to a bagel store in the small strip mall, purchased some items at that store, and was returning to her vehicle when the incident occurred. She had just stepped off the curb, and she had moved only one or two steps forward, when her foot went into the pothole and she fell. The plaintiff claims that prior to her fall she did not observe the pothole, which she estimates to have been about three feet in diameter and four inches deep. The Supreme Court erred in granting the motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that the plaintiff failed to set forth a prima facie case that the defendant had constructive notice of the defect. “To constitute constructive notice, a defect must be visible and apparent and it must exist for a sufficient length of time prior to the accident to permit a defendant’s employees to discover and remedy it” (Gordon v American Museum of Natural History, 67 NY2d 836, 837 [1986]). Photographs may be used to prove constructive notice if they were taken close in time to the accident and if there is testimony that the conditions depicted in the photographs are substantially the same as those that existed on the day of the accident (see Batton v Elghanayan, 43 NY2d 898 [1978]; DeGiacomo v Westchester County Healthcare Corp., 295 AD2d 395 [2002]). After the defendant made out a prima facie case for summary judgment on the issue of notice, the plaintiff raised a triable question of fact on. the issue of constructive notice by submitting photographs, supported by deposition testimony, from which a jury could infer that the pothole existed for a sufficient period of time for it to have been discovered and remedied by the defendant (see Batton v Elghanayan, supra; see also Taylor v New York City Tr. Auth., 48 NY2d 903 [1979]). Furthermore, contrary to the defendant’s contention, the fact that this defect might have been open and obvious does not negate the defendant’s duty to maintain its premises in a reasonably safe condition, but rather raises an issue of fact concerning the plaintiffs comparative negligence (see Cupo v Karfunkel, 1 AD3d 48 [2003]; Chambers v Maury Povich Show, 285 AD2d 440 [2001]; Morgan v Genrich, 239 AD2d 919 [1997]). Altman, J.P, Florio, Friedmann and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover uninsured motorist’s benefits, New York Central Mutual Fire Insurance Company appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Dutchess County (Dillon, J.), dated December 11, 2002, as granted the plaintiffs cross motion to compel it to proceed to arbitration of the plaintiffs uninsured motorist claim. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The appellant’s contention that the plaintiffs claim for uninsured motorist benefits is time-barred is without merit (see Matter of Allstate Ins. Co. v Morrison, 267 AD2d 381 [1999]; Matter of Continental Ins. Co. v Richt, 253 AD2d 818, 819 [1998]; Matter of Allstate Ins. Co. v Giordano, 108 AD2d 910 [1985], affd 66 NY2d 810 [1985]). The appellant’s remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Santucci, J.E, S. Miller, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for wrongful death, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Lally, J.), dated October 1, 2002, which denied its motion to vacate its default in failing to timely file a note of issue in response to a CPLR 3216 demand, and directed that the complaint be dismissed. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. It is well settled that upon receipt of a defendant’s 90-day notice pursuant to CPLR 3216, a plaintiff is required either to file a note of issue within 90 days or move before the default date for an extension of time within which to comply (see Aguilar v Knutson, 296 AD2d 562 [2002]; Werbin v Locicero, 287 AD2d 617 [2001]; Cohen v Silverman, 281 AD2d 445 [2001]). It is also well settled that a certification order from the court directing the plaintiff to serve and file a note of issue within 90 days and warning that failure to comply may serve as the basis for dismissal pursuant to CPLR 3216, as was the situation in this case, has the same effect as a valid 90-day notice pursuant to CPLR 3216 (see Aguilar v Knutson, supra; Vento v Bargain Bilge W., 292 AD2d 596 [2002]; Longacre Corp. v Better Hosp. Equip. Corp., 228 AD2d 653 [1996]). It is undisputed that the plaintiff did not file a note of issue or move for an extension of time within the 90-day period. Thus, to avoid dismissal of the action, the plaintiff was required to show a justifiable excuse for the delay and a meritorious cause of action (see CPLR 3216 [3]; Aguilar v Knutson, supra; Werbin v Locicero, supra). However, the plaintiff failed to make the requisite showing. Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly denied the plaintiff’s motion and dismissed the complaint. Florio, J.E, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendant Hudson Management appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Milano, J.), dated June 21, 2002, as, upon renewal, denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The Supreme Court properly denied the appellant’s motion, upon renewal, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it. “A special employee is described as one who is transferred for a limited time of whatever duration to the service of another” (Thompson v Grumman Aerospace Corp. 78 NY2d 553, 557). While there are many factors to consider in determining whether a special employment relationship exists, the key factor is the right to direct the work and exercise control over the employee (cf. Thompson v Grumman Aerospace Corp., supra; Cameli v Pace Univ., 131 AD2d 419, 420 [1987]). The appellant demonstrated its prima facie entitlement to judgment as a matter of law by showing that the injured plaintiffs employer controlled the alleged special employee. In opposition, however, the plaintiffs raised triable issues of fact as to such control. In view of the foregoing, we need not reach the parties’ remaining contentions. Altman, J.P., Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to rescind a sale of real property and to recover damages for fraud, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Putnam County (Hickman, J.), dated March 21, 2002, as granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The defendant established its entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, thereby shifting the burden to the plaintiff to submit admissible evidence raising a triable issue of fact (see Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851 [1985]). In opposition to the motion, the plaintiff failed to come forward with evidence to raise a triable issue of fact. It is well settled that with respect to a real property contract, unless the facts represented involve matters peculiarly within one party’s knowledge, the other party must make use of the means available to learn, by the exercise of ordinary intelligence, the truth of such matters, “or he [or she] will not be heard to complain that he [or she] was induced to enter into the transaction by misrepresentations” (Schumaker v Mather, 133 NY 590, 596 [1892]; see Danann Realty Corp. v Harris, 5 NY2d 317, 322 [1959]). Here, the size of the subject parcel of property was not a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of the defendant, and could have been ascertained by the plaintiff by means available to him through the exercise of ordinary intelligence, including the examination of certain public records, or by physically inspecting the property before the closing (see Eisenthal v Witt-lock, 198 AD2d 395, 396 [1993]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment where the plaintiff’s claim was contingent upon a finding of fraudulent inducement or negligent misrepresentation. In addition, the plaintiff may not recover on the theory that the parties were mutually mistaken as to the acreage of the subject parcel of property, as he failed to allege or show that the sale was intended to be by the acre and not in gross (see Sweet v Marsh, 133 App Div 315 [1909]; Little Stillwater Holding Corp. v Cold Brook Sand & Gravel Corp., 151 Misc 2d 457 [1991]). The plaintiff’s remaining contentions are without merit. Krausman, J.E, Townes, Mastro and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for breach of a lease, the defendant Spearhead Systems, Inc., appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Lifson, J.), dated August 6, 2002, as, in effect, upon granting that branch of its motion which was for leave to enter judgment on its counterclaims upon the plaintiffs failure to reply, directed that entry of judgment be deferred until other damages were assessed against it. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. Under the circumstances of this case, the Supreme Court correctly deferred entry of a default judgment in favor of the appellant pending assessment of other damages to be assessed against the appellant. We note that to the extent that the appellant has raised issues in its brief concerning the denial of its cross motion to dismiss pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7), and the denial, without prejudice, of the respondent’s motion for partial summary judgment, we do not reach those issues. The notice of appeal specified that the appeal was limited to that part of the order which deferred entry of the default judgment. “ ‘An appeal from only part of an order constitutes a waiver of the right to appeal from other parts of that order’ ” (Clark v 345 E. 52nd St. Owners, 245 AD2d 410, 413 [1997] [citations omitted], quoting Royal Brooklyn Union Gas Co., 122 AD2d 132, 133 [1986]). Altman, J.P., Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendant 80-02 Leasehold Company appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of (1) an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Weiss, J.), dated October 7, 2002, as denied those branches of its motion which were for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and the cross claims of the defendant Bally Total Fitness Corporation insofar as asserted against it, and for summary judgment on its cross claim for contractual indemnification against the defendant Bally Total Fitness Corporation, and (2) an order of the same court dated December 5, 2002, as, upon reargument, adhered to the original determination. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated October 7, 2002, is dismissed, as that order was superseded by the order dated December 5, 2002, made upon reargument; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated December 5, 2002, is affirmed insofar as appealed from; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the respondents. The defendant landlord, 80-02 Leasehold Company, owns a multi-unit building in Queens. It leases part of the ground floor to the defendant tenant, Bally Total Fitness Corporation. The tenant operates a health club at the demised premises. The plaintiff, Nicole Gibson, allegedly sustained injuries while attending an aerobic step exercise class at the health club. She claims that while she was using a piece of step equipment, it slid out from underneath her, causing her to lose her balance and fall. The plaintiff commenced this action against, among others, the landlord and the tenant, alleging that they were negligent in failing to repair a leak in the demised premises which contributed to the occurrence of her accident. The landlord moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and the cross claims of the tenant insofar as asserted against it on the ground that as an out-of-possession landlord it could not be held liable for the condition of the premises arising out of the use and operation of the health club. The landlord also, inter alia, sought summary judgment on its cross claim against the tenant for contractual indemnification. The Supreme Court found that a triable issue of fact exists as to whether the leak in the ceiling caused or contributed to the plaintiffs accident, and whether the landlord had notice of the leak and a duty to repair it. The Supreme Court also denied the landlord summary judgment on its cross claim for indemnification. Thereafter, the Supreme Court granted the landlord’s motion for reargument but, upon reargument, adhered to its prior determination. We affirm. “It is well settled that an out-of-possession owner or lessor is not liable for injuries that occur on the premises unless that entity retained control of the premises or is contractually obligated to repair the unsafe condition” (Jackson v United States Tennis Assn., 294 AD2d 470, 471 [2002] [internal quotation marks omitted]; see Ahmad v City of New York, 298 AD2d 473 [2002]; Berado v City of Mount Vernon, 262 AD2d 513 [1999]). There are material issues of fact to be resolved at trial regarding the landlord’s contractual obligation to repair the leak in the aerobics room ceiling where the plaintiffs accident occurred. Accordingly, that branch of the landlord’s motion was properly denied. The Supreme Court also properly denied that branch of the landlord’s motion which sought summary judgment on its cross claim for indemnification against the tenant. Pursuant to General Obligations Law § 5-321, any lease provision which purports to exempt a lessor from liability for its own acts of negligence is void and unenforceable {see Gross v Sweet, 49 NY2d 102 [1979]; Radius, Ltd. v Newhouse, 213 AD2d 614 [1995]). The broad indemnification provision in the lease shifts the entire responsibility for the tenant’s damages to the tenant regardless of the landlord’s own negligence. Furthermore, the indemnification agreement failed to limit the landlord’s recovery under the tenant’s indemnification obligation to insurance proceeds. Accordingly, the indemnification clause is unenforceable under General Obligations Law § 5-321 {see Leone v Leewood Serv. Sta., 212 AD2d 669, 672 [1995], citing Hogeland v Sibley, Lindsay & Curr Co., 42 NY2d 153, 158-160 [1977]; Sanford v Woodner Co., 304 AD2d 813 [2003]). The defendant landlord’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.P, Schmidt, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Dutchess County (Dolan, J.), dated August 20, 2002, which granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that he did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) and denied his cross motion for summary judgment on the issue of liability. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. We agree with the Supreme Court that the plaintiff failed to come forward with sufficient admissible evidence to raise a triable issue of fact in response to the defendants’ initial showing that he did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Thus, summary judgment was properly awarded to the defendants {see Licari v Elliott, 57 NY2d 230 [1982]; Amato v Psaltakis, 279 AD2d 439 [2001]). In light of our determination, we need not reach the plaintiffs remaining contention. Santucci, J.P., Goldstein, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for alleged violations of 42 USC § 1983, the defendants appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Pitts, J.), dated September 3, 2002, as denied that branch of their motion which was pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7) to dismiss the first through fourth causes of action. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, that branch of the motion which is to dismiss the first through fourth causes of action is granted, and those causes of action are dismissed. The plaintiff applied to the Town of Huntington for a building permit to expand its docks. As a prerequisite to obtaining a permit from the Town, the Town required the plaintiff to first obtain approval from the Incorporated Village of Huntington Bay despite the fact that the dock expansion was not located within the Village. The Village Building Inspector denied the plaintiffs application for a permit, and on administrative appeal, the Village Zoning Board of Appeals (hereinafter the ZBA) issued a positive declaration of environmental significance. The plaintiff commenced a CPLR article 78 proceeding, and the Supreme Court determined, inter alia, that the Village and the ZBA acted without sound basis in reason and without regard to the facts and directed that the necessary permits be issued. On appeal, this Court affirmed, finding that the Village and the ZBA lacked jurisdiction over the proposed dock expansion (see Matter of Huntington Yacht Club v Incorporated Vil. of Huntington Bay, 272 AD2d 327). The Town ultimately issued a permit, as did other governmental agencies from which approvals were required. The plaintiff commenced this action against the Village, the ZBA, the Village mayor and members of the Board of Trustees of the Village. The first four causes of action allege that the defendants violated 42 USC § 1983 by depriving the plaintiff of its property without substantive and procedural due process of law, taking its property without just compensation, and depriving it of the constitutional right to equal protection of the laws. The Supreme Court denied that branch of the defendants’ motion which was to dismiss those causes of action. We reverse the order insofar as appealed from. A party alleging a deprivation of property must demonstrate the existence of a protectable property interest (see Town of Orangetown v Magee, 88 NY2d 41, 52 [1996]; Bower Assoc. v Town of Pleasant Val., 304 AD2d 259, 262 [2003], lv granted 100 NY2d 512 [ 2003]). To establish a protectable property interest in a permit to expand its docks, the plaintiff must show a “ legitimate claim of entitlement’ ” to the permit for expansion (Town of Orangetown v Magee, supra at 52, quoting Board of Regents v Roth, 408 US 564, 577 [1972]). The mere expectation of obtaining a permit will not suffice (see Town of Orangetown v Magee, supra at 52; RRI Realty Corp. v Incorporated Vil. of Southampton, 870 F2d 911, 915 [1989], cert denied 493 US 893 [1989]). A protectable property interest does not arise in benefits that are discretionary unless the discretion of the governmental agency “is so narrowly circumscribed that approval of a proper application is virtually assured” (RRI Realty Corp. v Incorporated Vil. of Southampton, supra at 918; see Matter of Daxor Corp. v State of N.Y. Dept. of Health, 90 NY2d 89, 98-99 [1997]; Bower Assoc. v Town of Pleasant Val., supra at 263). Further, the fact that a court ultimately concludes that a permit was improperly denied and directs the issuance of the permit does not demonstrate the existence of a protectable property interest in the permit before the court directed its issuance (see Bower Assoc. v Town of Pleasant Val., supra at 263; RRI Realty Corp. v Incorporated Vil. of Southampton, supra at 919). The plaintiff contends that the Village had no discretion to grant or deny its application because the Village had no jurisdiction over the matter and that it therefore had a protectable property interest in a permit for expansion of its docks. However, in order to proceed with its expansion, the plaintiff ultimately was required to obtain a permit from the Town and other governmental agencies. The plaintiff did not allege or demonstrate that it had a legitimate claim of entitlement to those permits or that the governmental agencies did not have any discretion in the matter, although such permits were ultimately issued. Therefore, the plaintiff did not demonstrate the existence of a protectable property interest. Consequently, its causes of action alleging a deprivation of property without due process and a taking of property without just compensation should have been dismissed (see Matter of Wedinger v Goldberger, 71 NY2d 428, 439-440 [1988], cert denied 488 US 850 [1988]; Bower Assoc. v Town of Pleasant Val., supra). Further, the plaintiff failed to allege any facts to support its conclusory allegation that it was treated differently from other similarly-situated applicants. Consequently, its cause of action alleging a denial of equal protection of the laws also should have been dismissed (see Bower Assoc. v Town of Pleasant Val., supra). In light of the foregoing, we need not consider the defendants’ remaining contentions. Altman, J.P., Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., (1) the plaintiffs appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Dutchess County (Pagones, J.), dated July 12, 2002, as granted those branches of the separate cross motions of the defendants Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corporation, New York Telephone Company, and Dutchess Quarry & Supply Co., Inc., which were for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them, and (2) the defendant County of Dutchess separately appeals, as limited by its brief, from stated portions of the same order which, inter alia, denied its cross motion for severance and for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it and denied that branch of its separate cross motion which was to vacate a prior order of the same court dated November 15, 2001, directing the deposition of the defendant Martin Leshaj. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with one bill of costs payable to the defendants Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corporation, New York Telephone Company, and Dutchess Quarry & Supply Co., Inc., by the plaintiffs and the defendant County of Dutchess. On the evening of April 17, 1998, the defendant Martin Leshaj was driving on a curve on Freedom Road in the Town of LaGrange when his car began to slide on the wet roadway. Leshaj lost control of his vehicle and skidded off the roadway, striking a utility pole located approximately 13 feet, 3 inches away from the edge of the pavement on the west side of Freedom Road. The plaintiff Michelle Ingoglia, a passenger in Leshaj’s vehicle, was seriously injured in the collision. Shortly after the accident, the injured plaintiff and her mother commenced this action against Leshaj. The plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaint to add the Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corporation (hereinafter Central Hudson), the New York Telephone Company (hereinafter New York Telephone), the Dutchess Quarry & Supply Co., Inc. (hereinafter Dutchess Quarry), and the County of Dutchess as additional defendants. Central Hudson and New York Telephone jointly own the utility pole which Leshaj’s vehicle struck when it left the roadway, and Dutchess Quarry manufactured and supplied the asphalt which the County used on its roadways. The plaintiffs deposed Leshaj in June 1999, before the other defendants were joined in the action. However, attempts by the other defendants to depose Leshaj were unsuccessful, and on August 1, 2001, the Supreme Court issued a conditional order striking Leshaj’s answer and precluding him from testifying at the trial of this action unless he appeared for a deposition within 30 days. It is undisputed that Leshaj failed to timely comply with the conditional preclusion order, allegedly because he had moved from Columbia County to the Bronx. Shortly after the conditional order of preclusion became final, the County filed a cross motion for severance pursuant to CPLR 603, and for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it on the ground that the plaintiffs would be unable to establish a prima facie case without Leshaj’s testimony. Central Hudson and New York Telephone then cross-moved, inter alia, for summary judgment, contending that they could not be held liable because the utility pole which they jointly owned was located on private property over 13 feet from the paved edge of the roadway. Dutchess Quarry also cross-moved for summary judgment, maintaining that it could not be held liable for the accident because the asphalt it supplied to the County was manufactured in accordance with specifications set forth by the New York State Department of Transportation (hereinafter the DOT). While these motions were pending, the County also cross-moved to vacate a prior order of the Supreme Court dated November 15, 2001, directing Leshaj to appear for a further deposition. The Supreme Court awarded summary judgment to Central Hudson, New York Telephone, and Dutchess Quarry, but denied the County’s cross motions. Contrary to the plaintiffs’ contention, the Supreme Court properly awarded summary judgment to Central Hudson and New York Telephone. It is well settled that “no liability exists for an injury to a traveler who leaves the roadway and strikes an object entirely on private property and not within the highway right-of-way” (DiMarco v Verone, 147 AD2d 671 [1989]; see Hayes v Malkan, 26 NY2d 295 [1970]; Echorst v Kaim, 288 AD2d 595 [2001]; Wang v County of Rockland, 179 AD2d 977 [1992]). In support of their respective cross motions for summary judgment, Central Hudson and New York Telephone relied on the affidavit of a surveyor that the subject utility pole was located on private property pursuant to an easement, and that the County never acquired title to this land. The evidence the plaintiffs submitted in opposition was insufficient to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether the subject utility pole was within the right-of-way. In any event, even if the subject utility pole was situated within the right-of-way, its placement over 13 feet from the edge of the paved roadway was not an unreasonable hazard to motorists for which Central Hudson and New York Telephone can be held liable (see Tomassi v Town of Union, 46 NY2d 91 [1978]; Ciasullo v Town of Greenville, 275 AD2d 338 [2000]; Guy v Rochester Gas & Elec. Corp., 168 AD2d 965 [1990]). The Supreme Court also properly awarded summary judgment to Dutchess Quarry. Dutchess Quarry satisfied its burden of demonstrating its entitlement to judgment as a matter of law by submitting evidentiary proof that the asphalt it supplied to the County was manufactured in accordance with the specifications of the DOT. In opposition to the motion, the plaintiffs failed to come forward with evidence to support their claim that the asphalt manufactured by Dutchess Quarry may not have met the specifications of the DOT. However, we reject the County’s contention that the Supreme Court erred in denying its cross motion to sever the action against it from the action against Leshaj, and for summary judgment in its favor. In support of that branch of its cross motion which was for summary judgment, the County failed to submit admissible evidence to establish that it fulfilled its duty to maintain the subject roadway in a reasonably safe condition (see Hepburn v Croce, 295 AD2d 475 [2002]; Boyd v Trent, 262 AD2d 260 [1999]). Furthermore, the Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in denying that branch of the County’s cross motion which sought a severance pursuant to CPLR 603. There are common factual issues involved in the claims against the County and Leshaj, and the interests of judicial economy and consistency will be served by having a single trial (see Shanley v Callanan Indus., 54 NY2d 52 [1981]; McCrimmon v County of Nassau, 302 AD2d 372 [2003]; Vierya v Briggs & Stratton Corp., 184 AD2d 766 [1992]). Finally, we reject the County’s contention that the Supreme Court erred in denying its separate cross motion to vacate the prior order directing Leshaj to appear for a further deposition. Although an order of preclusion was issued which struck Leshaj’s answer and prohibits him from offering testimony at trial to establish that he was free from negligence in the happening of the accident, the plaintiffs have done “nothing to incur a sanction which would have an adverse effect on their interests” (Comarco Data Servs. v Tru-Check Computer Sys., 154 AD2d 249, 250 [1989]). Accordingly, the order of preclusion entered against Leshaj does not operate to bar the plaintiffs from further deposing him, or from utilizing his deposition testimony and calling him as a witness at trial. We note that we disagree with the Supreme Court’s apparent finding that the County engaged in frivolous conduct. Smith, J.E, Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Johnson, J.), dated July 31, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that he did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is denied, and the complaint is reinstated. The defendant failed to establish her prima facie entitlement to summary judgment on the ground that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) {see Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955 [1992]). The defendant’s examining orthopedist indicated in his affirmation, inter alia, that he reviewed certain sworn and improperly sworn magnetic resonance imaging reports of the plaintiff’s cervical and lumbosacral spine, which revealed disc herniations at C4-5 and C6-7, a disc bulge at C5-6, and a herniation at L4-L5. However, the examining orthopedist failed to demonstrate in his affirmation that the plaintiffs injuries were not causally related to the accident, or that they were not serious within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) {see Shin v Torres, 295 AD2d 495 [2002]; Franca v Parisi, 298 AD2d 554 [2002]; Junco v Ranzi, 288 AD2d 440 [2001]; Papadonikolakis v First Fid. Leasing Group, 283 AD2d 470 [2001]). Therefore, the grant of summary judgment to the defendant was improper. Accordingly, we need not consider whether the plaintiffs opposition papers were sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact {see Mariaca-Olmos v Mizrhy, 226 AD2d 437 [1996]). Ritter, J.E, McGinity, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Hall, J.), dated September 12, 2002, as upon, in effect, reargument, adhered to its original determination in an order dated March 7, 2001, granting the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the first cause of action on the ground that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The Supreme Court, upon granting reargument, properly adhered to the original determination, since the plaintiff failed to show that the Supreme Court had misapprehended any pertinent law or fact (see CPLR 2221 [d]; Pulsifer v Ardito, 305 AD2d 653 [2003]). Altman, J.P, S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Davis, J.), entered September 4, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. A defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law where the plaintiff is unable to identify any defect in the floor upon which he or she fell other than to describe it as smooth or shiny (see Pizzi v Bradlee’s Div. of Stop & Shop, 172 AD2d 504 [1991]). Indeed, it is well settled that in the absence of evidence of a negligent application of floor wax or polish, the mere fact that a smooth floor may be shiny or slippery does not support a cause of action to recover damages for negligence, nor does it give rise to an inference of negligence (see Lee v Rite Aid of NY., 261 AD2d 368 [1999]). Here, the defendant established a prima facie case of entitlement to judgment as matter of law by demonstrating that it neither created nor had notice of the alleged condition which caused the plaintiff to fall. The plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact in opposition to the motion, since at her deposition she merely described the floor on which she fell as looking “wet,” “shiny,” and “waxed” to a high gloss. She did not remember her clothes feeling wet after she fell, nor did she observe any of the defendant’s employees working in the area before her fall. The plaintiffs affidavit in opposition to the motion for summary judgment also was insufficient to raise a triable factual issue, inasmuch as it presented a feigned issue of fact designed to avoid the consequences of her earlier deposition testimony (see Hartman v Mountain Val. Brew Pub, 301 AD2d 570 [2003]; Bloom v La Femme Fatale of Smithtown, 273 AD2d 187 [2000]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly granted summary judgment in favor of the defendant dismissing the complaint. S. Miller, J.P., Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for legal malpractice, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Kramer, J.), dated July 11, 2002, as granted the motion of the defendants Handwerker, Marchelos & Gayner and Steve Marchelos, and the separate motions of the defendants Michael Handwerker and Charles J. Gayner, to dismiss the cause of action to recover damages for legal malpractice insofar as asserted against them on the ground that it is barred by the statute of limitations. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with one bill of costs payable to the respondents appearing separately and filing separate briefs. The Supreme Court properly determined that, upon the execution of a consent to change attorney form on November 5, 1998, the law firm of Handwerker, Marchelos & Gayner ceased to represent the plaintiff (see Wester v Sussman, 287 AD2d 618 [2001]; Elliott v Jacobs, 221 AD2d 889 [1995]). The continuous representation doctrine does not apply since there is no evidence of an ongoing, continuous, developing, and dependent relationship between the plaintiff and the law firm after that date (see Piliero v Adler & Stavros, 282 AD2d 511, 512 [2001]; Wester v Sussman, supra). Accordingly, the cause of action alleging legal malpractice is barred by the statute of limitations (see CPLR 214 [6]). Altman, J.E, Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Tanenbaum, J), dated November 21, 2002, which granted the motion of the defendant Smithtown Nissan, Inc., to vacate its default in answering the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed. Under the circumstances , the court properly granted the motion to vacate the default. Altman, J.E, S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendant appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Colar, J), dated September 10, 2002, which denied her motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. To impose liability for a lead-paint hazard, a plaintiff must establish that the landlord had actual or constructive notice of and a reasonable opportunity to remedy the hazardous condition (see Chapman v Silber, 97 NY2d 9 [2001]; McCabe v Hans, 298 AD2d 565 [2002]). Further, the proponent of a summary judgment motion must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, tendering sufficient evidence to eliminate any triable issue of fact from the case (see Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557 [1980]). The failure to make such a showing requires the denial of the motion regardless of the sufficiency of the opposing papers (see Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851 [1985]). The defendant failed to present any evidence regarding whether the subject house was built before or after the use of lead-based paint was barred, and of her lack of knowledge concerning the hazards which lead-based paint posed to young children (see Vidal v Rodriquez, 301 AD2d 517 [2003]; McCabe v Hans, supra; Patterson v Brennan, 292 AD2d 582 [2002]; see generally Chapman v Silber, supra). Accordingly, the defendant failed to establish her prima facie entitlement to judgment as a matter of law and her motion for summary judgment was properly denied. Altman, J.E, Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover for property damage pursuant to a homeowner’s insurance policy, the defendant appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Jonas, J.), dated January 27, 2003, as denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. Contrary to the defendant’s contentions, the Supreme Court properly denied its motion for summary judgment. The defendant failed to demonstrate the absence of a triable issue of fact with respect to whether the plaintiff breached the terms of her homeowner’s insurance policy, or whether the alleged damage to the premises resulted from neglect and wear and tear, and therefore was not covered under the plaintiff’s policy (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.E, Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover no-fault benefit payments under an automobile insurance policy, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Nastasi, J.), entered January 2, 2003, as denied that branch of his motion which was for summary judgment on his cause of action against the defendant Progressive Insurance Company to recover no-fault benefit payments for lost wages. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The plaintiff alleges that he is entitled to summary judgment against the defendant Progressive Insurance Company (hereinafter Progressive), regarding his cause of action to recover no-fault benefit payments for lost wages because Progressive did not pay or deny this claim within the 30-day period set forth in the Insurance Law (see Insurance Law § 5106; 11 NYCRR 65.15 [g] [3]). However, the plaintiff did not make a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law since he failed to demonstrate the absence of any triable issue of fact regarding Progressive’s alleged failure to comply with the applicable Insurance Law regulations governing the payment or denial of his no-fault claim (see Insurance Law § 5106; 11 NYCRR 65.15; Presbyterian Hosp. in City of N.Y. v Maryland Cas. Co., 90 NY2d 274 [1997]; New York & Presbyt. Hosp. v American Tr. Ins. Co., 287 AD2d 699 [2001]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly denied that branch of the plaintiffs motion which was for summary judgment on his cause of action to recover no-fault benefit payments for lost wages (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]; Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851 [1985]). Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ, concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Emerson, J.), dated August 29, 2002, which granted the motion of the defendant Mark Howell, an infant, by his parent and natural guardian, Harry Howell, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against him, and the separate motion of the defendants West Islip Union Free School District, Udall Road Middle School, and Fatricia Lang for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against them. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with one bill of costs to the respondents appearing separately and filing separate briefs. Although schools are under a duty to adequately supervise the students in their charge and will be held liable for foreseeable injuries proximately related to the absence of adequate supervision (see Mirand v City of New York, 84 NY2d 44, 49 [1994]), they are not insurers of safety, and cannot be held liable for “every thoughtless or careless act by which one pupil may injure another” (Lawes v Board of Educ. of City of N.Y., 16 NY2d 302, 306 [1965]). Even accepting as true the evidence favoring the plaintiffs, it is clear that the infant plaintiffs injury resulted from a spontaneous and unforeseeable collision with a fellow student during a physical education class. The defendants West Islip Union Free School District, Udall Road Middle School, and Fatricia Lang (hereinafter the school defendants) demonstrated their entitlement to summary judgment by establishing that the incident could not have been anticipated in the reasonable exercise of their legal duty to the infant plaintiff (see Shabot v East Ramapo School Dist., 269 AD2d 587 [2000]; see also Checchia v Port Washington U.F.S.D., 253 AD2d 839 [1998]). Since the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact in response to the school defendants’ showing, the Supreme Court correctly granted summary judgment in favor of those defendants (see Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). Furthermore, the Supreme Court correctly granted summary judgment in favor of the defendant Mark Howell, an infant, by his parent and natural guardian, Harry Howell, since he, prima facie, established that he did not deviate from the degree of care expected of a child of similar age, intelligence, and experience in participating in the gym class, and the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact in opposition thereto (see e.g. Simcha v Simcha, 292 AD2d 591, 592 [2002]; Sorto v Flores, 241 AD2d 446, 447 [1997]). Santucci, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants appeal from (1) a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Vaughan, J.), entered November 28, 2001, which, upon a jury verdict on the issue of liability and a separate jury verdict on the issue of damages, inter alia, awarding the plaintiff the sums of $54,000 for past loss of earnings and $306,000 for future lost earnings, is in favor of the plaintiff and against them, and (2) an order of the same court dated February 27, 2002, which denied their motion pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a), inter alia, to set aside the jury verdicts and for judgment in their favor as a matter of law, or alternatively, to set aside the jury verdicts as against the weight of the evidence and for a new trial. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, by (1) deleting the provision thereof denying that branch of the motion which was to set aside the jury verdict on the issue of liability as against the weight of the evidence and substituting therefor a provision granting that branch of the motion only to the extent of granting a new trial on the issue of the plaintiffs comparative negligence, if any, and (2) deleting the provision thereof denying that branch of the motion which was to set aside the jury verdict on the issue of damages as against the weight of the evidence and substituting therefor a provision granting that branch of the motion only to the extent of granting a new trial on the issue of damages for past and future lost earnings; as so modified, the order is affirmed, the judgment is vacated, the findings of fact (a) that the defendants were negligent and that their negligence was a proximate cause of the accident, and (b) as to damages for past and future pain and suffering and future medical expenses are affirmed, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Kings County, for new trials consistent herewith and for the entry of an appropriate judgment thereafter; and it is further, Ordered that the appeal from the judgment is dismissed in light of our determination on the appeal from the order; and it is further, Ordered that any award of costs is to abide the event of a new trial. The plaintiff allegedly sustained injuries when he tripped and fell over a metal plate covering a sewer in a common area of the basement of the apartment building where he lived. He commenced this action against the defendants Audobon at 186th Street, LLC, the owner of the building, and Successful Management Corp., the manager of the building. At the trial on the issue of liability, the plaintiff testified that he lived in an apartment in the basement for approximately IV2 years before the accident, and traversed the metal plate numerous times each day. The plaintiff never complained to the superintendent of the building regarding the metal plate. The superintendent testified that the metal plate had been there since he started working in the building in 1973. The superintendent described the metal plate as “warped,” approximately 30 inches square, one-quarter of an inch thick, and approximately one-half inch raised above the cement. Following a bifurcated jury trial, the jury at the trial on the issue of liability found that the defendants’ negligence was a proximate cause of the plaintiff’s accident. The jury found, however, that although the plaintiff was negligent, his negligence was not a proximate cause of his accident. The jury at the trial on the issue of damages, inter alia, awarded the plaintiff damages in the sums of $54,000 for past lost earnings and $306,000 for future lost of earnings. Thereafter, the Supreme Court denied the defendants’ motion to set aside the verdicts and for judgment in their favor as a matter , of law, or alternatively, to set aside the verdicts as against the weight of the evidence and for a new trial. We agree with the defendants’ contention that the finding that the plaintiff was negligent, but that his negligence was not a proximate cause of the accident, is against the weight of the evidence (see CPLR 4404 [a]; Sinagra v City of New York, 287 AD2d 447 [2001]; Nicastro v Park, 113 AD2d 129 [1985]). In this case, “the issues of [comparative] negligence and proximate cause are so inextricably interwoven as to make it logically impossible to find negligence without also finding proximate cause” (Bennett v City of New York, 303 AD2d 614, 614-615 [2003], quoting Kovit v Estate of Hallums, 261 AD2d 442, 443 [1999]). Thus, the proper remedy is to grant a new trial on the issue of the plaintiffs comparative negligence, if any. However, we affirm the findings that the defendants were negligent and that their negligence was a proximate cause of the accident. We also grant a new trial on the issues of past and future lost earnings. The defendants argue that the plaintiffs testimony as to his earnings, without supporting documentation, was conclusory. While the plaintiff has the burden of establishing lost earnings with reasonable certainty by submitting relevant documentation (see Gomez v City of New York, 260 AD2d 598 [1999]; Poturniak v Rupcic, 232 AD2d 541 [1996]; Papa v City of New York, 194 AD2d 527, 531 [1993]), the plaintiff was improperly precluded from doing so by the trial court (cf. Parochial Bus Sys. v Board of Educ. 60 NY2d 539, 545-546 [1983]). However, we affirm the jury finding as to damages for past and future pain and suffering and future medical expenses. The defendants’ remaining contentions either are academic or without merit. Santucci, J.R, Krausman, Schmidt and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for breach of a title insurance policy and for a declaration that the defendant is obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiff for legal fees, costs, and expenses incurred in prosecuting this action and a related action entitled Pryor v Binan, pending in the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, under Index No. 01663/99, the plaintiff appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Henry, J.), dated June 12, 2002, as granted the defendant’s motion for leave to reargue the plaintiffs prior motion for summary judgment which was determined in an order of the same court dated September 28, 2001, and upon reargument, inter alia, denied the motion for partial summary judgment and dismissed those portions of the complaint seeking a declaration that the defendant is obligated to defend the plaintiff in the related action, indemnify her for legal fees, costs, and expenses incurred in that action, and indemnify her for legal fees, costs, and expenses in this action. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, the defendant’s motion for leave to reargue is denied, so much of the order dated September 28, 2001, as granted the plaintiff’s motion for partial summary judgment is reinstated, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, for the entry of a judgment declaring that Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company is obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiff in the related action entitled Pryor v Binan, pending in the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, under Index No. 01663/99. The Supreme Court erred in granting the defendant’s motion for leave to reargue. The defendant did not establish that the Supreme Court misapplied the law or the facts in its original order (see CPLR 2221 [d] [2]). Furthermore, a motion for leave to reargue is not designed to offer a party an opportunity to argue a new theory of law not previously advanced by it (see Frisenda v X Large Enters., 280 AD2d 514 [2001]). The title policy at issue obligates the defendant to defend the plaintiff and pay her legal fees, costs, and expenses in the action she commenced against her neighbors to quiet title, in which they have asserted a counterclaim against her (see Cohn v Commonwealth Land Tit. Ins. Co., 254 AD2d 241 [1998]; Eliopoulos v Nation’s Tit. Ins. of N.Y., 912 F Supp 28 [1996]). The plaintiff’s contention that she is entitled to legal fees, costs, and expenses in the instant action is an issue for the Supreme Court when determining the plaintiffs potential damages on her cause of action alleging breach of contract (see Hermann v Bahrami, 236 AD2d 516 [1997]; Citibank v Chicago Tit. Ins. Co., 214 AD2d 212 [1995]). Smith, J.E, Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for medical malpractice, etc., the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Steinhardt, J.), dated October 31, 2002, which granted the defendants’ separate motions for partial summary judgment dismissing the causes of action alleging medical malpractice based on the infliction of a burn insofar as asserted against them. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with one bill of costs, the motions are denied, and the causes of action alleging medical malpractice based on the infliction of a burn are reinstated. The plaintiff Roura Rosales-Rosario (hereinafter the injured plaintiff) sustained a burn on the inner portion of her right knee while hospitalized to give birth. The record reflects that she was heavily sedated, underwent a vaginal examination performed by the defendant Dr. Milagros Benedicto, and then received an epidural anaesthetic from physicians and nurses employed by the defendant Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center which numbed her from the waist down. She discovered the burn upon awaking from her sedative-induced sleep. The cause of the injury was not identified, although some evidence in the record suggests that an overhead examination lamp in the labor and delivery room might have been responsible. The defendants denied employing the lamp in the course of their examinations and treatment of the injured plaintiff. Hospital records and deposition testimony indicate that Dr. Benedicto and medical employees of the hospital entered and exited the injured plaintiffs room several times in the two-hour period between the time the epidural anaesthetic was administered and the time the injured plaintiff awoke to discover the injury. The plaintiffs commenced this medical malpractice action relying in part on the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur and alleging that the defendants deviated from good and accepted medical practice both in inflicting the burn and in failing properly to treat it thereafter. The defendants separately moved for partial summary judgment dismissing the causes of action alleging medical malpractice based on the infliction of the burn arguing that the plaintiffs failed to establish the requisite elements of res ipsa loquitur. The Supreme Court granted the defendants’ motions. We reverse. The Supreme Court erred in finding that the plaintiffs did not establish the requisite elements of the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur. To rely on the doctrine, a plaintiff must submit sufficient proof that (1) the injury is of a kind that does not occur in the absence of someone’s negligence, (2) the injury is caused by an agency or instrumentality within the exclusive control of the defendants, and (3) the injury is not due to any voluntary action on the part of the injured plaintiff (see Kambat v St. Francis Hosp., 89 NY2d 489, 494 [1997]; Babits v Vassar Bros. Hosp., 287 AD2d 670, 671 [2001]). The doctrine is generally available to establish a prima facie case when an unexplained injury in an area which is remote from the treatment site occurs while the patient is anaesthetized (see Babits v Vassar Bros. Hosp., supra; Hill v Highland Hosp., 142 AD2d 955 [1988]; Mack v Lydia E. Hall Hosp., 121 AD2d 431 [1986]; Fogal v Genesee Hosp., 41 AD2d 468, 475 [1973]). Infliction of a blistering burn on the inner portion of the injured plaintiffs right knee during or shortly after a vaginal examination and administration of an epidural anaesthetic is an event that a jury could reasonably infer would not occur in the absence of negligence (see Babits v Vassar Bros. Hosp., supra at 671; see also Dillon v Rockaway Beach Hosp., 284 NY 176 [1940]; Hill v Highland Hosp., supra). Further, any potential cause of the burn was within the exclusive control of the defendants (Babits v Vassar Bros. Hosp., supra; Hill v Highland Hosp., supra). Moreover, because the defendants together exercised concurrent control over the examination room, the medical procedures, and the equipment used to perform them, the application of the doctrine is not defeated solely because the injured plaintiff, who was under the effects of various medications, could not identify the person who caused her injury (see Schmidt v Buffalo Gen. Hosp., 278 AD2d 827; [2000] Fogal v Genesee Hosp., supra at 474-475; Matlick v Long Is. Jewish Hosp., 25 AD2d 538, 539 [1966]). The defendants adduced no evidence in admissible form that contradicted the injured plaintiffs deposition testimony that she was unconscious at the time of injury, and thus could not have contributed to its cause (see Babits v Vassar Bros. Hosp., supra). Accordingly, the defendants’ motions should have been denied. Krausman, J.E, McGiriity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover no-fault medical payments under two insurance contracts, the defendant appeals from (1) a decision of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Lally, J.), dated December 20, 2002, and (2) an order and judgment (one paper) of the same court entered January 29, 2003, which, upon granting the plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment, is in favor of the plaintiff St. Luke’s Roosevelt Hospital, as assignee of Francisco Martinez, and against it in the principal sum of $10,265.76 and is in favor of the plaintiff Westchester Medical Center, as assignee of Juan Saravio, and against it in the principal sum of $4,864.02. Ordered that the appeal from the decision is dismissed, as no appeal lies from a decision (see Schicchi v Green Constr. Corp., 100 AD2d 509 [1984]); and it is further, Ordered that the order and judgment is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the plaintiffs. In support of their motion for summary judgment, the plaintiffs made a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law by offering sufficient evidence to demonstrate the absence of a triable issue of fact (see Insurance Law § 5106 [a]; 11 NYCRR 65.15 [g] [3]; Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]; St. Luke’s Roosevelt Hosp. v Allstate Ins. Co., 303 AD2d 743, 744 [2003]). In opposition, the defendant failed to raise a triable issue of fact (see Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly granted the plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment. Altman, J.E, Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, for specific performance to enforce a right of first refusal to purchase real property, the plaintiffs appeal, as limited by their notice of appeal and brief, (1) from stated portions of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Eerier, J.), dated July 3, 2002, which, inter alia, granted that branch of the motion of the defendant Bellport Building, Inc., which was for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it on the ground that the plaintiffs forfeited their right of first refusal by defaulting on the terms of the lease and, upon searching the record, granted summary judgment to the defendants Antonio Sciretta and Marilyn Venterina dismissing portions of the complaint insofar as asserted against them, and (2) from so much of an order of the same court entered February 24, 2003, as, upon reargument, adhered to the original determination. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated July 3, 2002, is dismissed, as that order was superseded by the order entered February 24, 2003, made upon reargument; and it is further, Ordered that the order entered February 24, 2003, is affirmed insofar as appealed from; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the respondents appearing separately and filing separate briefs. In 1998 the plaintiffs tenants, Thomas Schultz and David Green (hereinafter the plaintiffs), entered into a lease with the defendant Nancy Ljungqvist, who later assigned the lease to the defendant Bellport Building, Inc. The lease accorded the plaintiffs the right to purchase the subject premises on condition that they were not in default of any of the terms, conditions, or covenants contained in the lease. The lease further provided that if the plaintiffs caused such a default, or breached any term, condition, or covenant contained in the lease, then the right of first refusal would immediately terminate, “regardless of any action Landlord takes or Landlord’s failure to act pursuant to Tenant’s option hereunder.” Thus, although the landlord never formally declared the plaintiffs to be in default until they sought to exercise their right of first refusal, the plaintiffs’ violations of those provisions of the lease pertaining to their obligation to maintain insurance and the prohibition against assigning the lease without the prior written consent of the landlord sufficed as grounds to deny them the option to purchase the property (see LIN Broadcasting Corp. v Metromedia, Inc., 74 NY2d 54 [1989]; D.A.D. Rest, v Anthony Operating Corp., 139 AD2d 485, 486 [1988]; O’Rourke v Carlton, 286 AD2d 427 [2001]; Galapo v Feinberg, 266 AD2d 150 [1999]). The plaintiffs’ remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Dutchess County (Pagones, J.), dated April 2, 2003, as granted the defendants’ motion to compel disclosure of certain medical and school records. Ordered that the order is modified by deleting the provision thereof granting that branch of the motion which was to compel the plaintiffs to provide authorizations for the school records of the infant plaintiff’s parents and siblings and substituting therefor a provision denying that branch of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. The infant plaintiff (hereinafter the infant) was struck by a car owned and operated by the defendants. She allegedly suffered, among other injuries, traumatic brain injury and impaired cognition. The defendants served notices to produce upon the plaintiffs, seeking authorizations for, inter alia, the mother’s prenatal and delivery medical records pertaining to the infant, and the school records of the infant’s parents and siblings. After the plaintiffs refused to provide the demanded authorizations, the Supreme Court granted the defendants’ motion to compel, and the plaintiffs appeal. Although the infant’s mother is a party to this action in a representative capacity and individually insofar as she asserts a derivative cause of action for loss of services, her physical condition is not in controversy and she has not waived the physician-patient privilege (see e.g. Roman v Turner Colours, 255 AD2d 571 [1998]; Herbst v Bruhn, 106 AD2d 546 [1984]). The plaintiffs have agreed to provide the defendants with authorizations for the mother’s medical records pertaining to the birth of the infant, conceding that they pertain to the infant’s physical condition which is in controversy. We agree with the Supreme Court that the defendants are also entitled to the medical records of the infant’s mother pertaining to the time period when the infant was in útero, “during which time there could be no severance of the infant’s prenatal history from [her] mother’s medical history” (Scharlack v Richmond Mem. Hosp., 102 AD2d 886, 888 [1984]). However, we agree with the plaintiffs that the branch of the defendants’ motion which was to compel the plaintiffs to provide authorizations for the school records of the infant’s parents and siblings should have been denied. With respect to discovery of academic records, the primary issue is relevance rather than privilege (see Baldwin v Franklin Gen. Hosp., 151 AD2d 532 [1989]). The expert affidavit submitted by the defendants for the first time in a reply was conclusory, and wholly failed to substantiate the bald assertion that the school records of the infant’s parents and siblings are relevant to this action (see Andon v 302-304 Mott St. Assoc., 94 NY2d 740 [2000]). Goldstein, J.P, Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action for a judgment declaring that the defendant Allcity Insurance Company, sued herein as Empire Insurance Company, is obligated to defend and indemnify the defendants in two underlying actions entitled Singh v Citygas and Estate of Satinderjit Singh v Citygas, pending in the Supreme Court, Kings County under Index Nos. 43848/99 and 6207/00, respectively, the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (R. Rivera, J.), dated August 15, 2002, which denied their motion for summary judgment and granted the defendant’s cross motion for summary judgment. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Kings County, for the entry of a judgment declaring that Allcity Insurance Company sued herein as Empire Insurance Company, is not obligated to defend and indemnify the defendant in the underlying actions. Contrary to the plaintiffs’ contentions, the Supreme Court properly granted the defendant’s cross motion for summary judgment. The acts of Gurmeet Singh Dhinsa (hereinafter Dhinsa), an employee of corporate entities in the underlying actions, do not fall within the coverage provisions of the subject garagekeepers’ insurance policy as they were unrelated to the garage business (see Empire Group Allcity Ins. Co. v Cicciaro, 240 AD2d 362, 363 [1997]). Moreovér, Dhinsa’s actions were intrinsically intentional and thereby excluded from coverage (see Allstate Ins. Co. v Mugavero, 79 NY2d 153, 161 [1992]; RJC Realty Holding Corp. v Republic Franklin Ins. Co., 303 AD2d 573, 574 [2003]; Monter v CNA Ins. Cos., 202 AD2d 405, 406 [1994]). Further, the only policy that named one of Dhinsa’s corporate entities expired prior to the alleged tortious acts. Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly granted the defendant’s cross motion for summary judgment. Since this is an action for a declaratory judgment, the Supreme Court should have directed the entry of a judgment declaring that Allcity Insurance Company, sued herein as Empire Insurance Company, is not obligated to defend or indemnify the defendant in the underlying actions (see Lanza v Wagner, 11 NY2d 317, 334 [1962], appeal dismissed 371 US 74 [1962], cert denied 371 US 901 [1962]). The plaintiffs’ remaining contention is academic in light of our determination. Smith, J.E, Crane, Mastro and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Polizzi, J.), dated August 16, 2002, as, upon granting that branch of his motion which was for summary judgment on the issue of liability, held that he would be required to prove that he sustained a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 against the defaulting defendant, Jon Friedson, and denied his cross motion to disqualify the law firm of Brand & Brand from jointly representing the defendants. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The granting of an unopposed motion for summary judgment in favor of the plaintiff on the issue of liability in a no-fault action to recover damages for personal injuries does not automatically include a determination that the plaintiff sustained a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) (see Zecca v Riccardelli, 293 AD2d 31 [2002]; but see Porter v SPD Trucking, 284 AD2d 181 [2001]). Therefore, the Supreme Court correctly held that the plaintiff would be required to prove that he sustained a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) at his inquest against the defaulting defendant, Jon Friedson. Since the plaintiff was neither a former nor present client of the law firm of Brand & Brand, he did not have standing to seek its disqualification from dual representation of the two defendants (see Broadway Equities v 'Metropolitan Elec. Mfg. Co., 306 AD2d 426 [2003]; Ogilvie v McDonald’s Corp., 294 AD2d 550 [2002]). The plaintiffs remaining contentions are without merit. Altman, J.E, S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages pursuant to 42 USC § 1983, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Rockland County (Bergerman, J.), dated August 26, 2002, as granted that branch of the defendant’s motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action to recover damages pursuant to 42 USC § 1983. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. In opposition to the defendant’s prima facie demonstration of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, the plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether the defendant’s emergency closure of its motel pursuant to Town Code § 78-11 (A) violated 42 USC § 1983 (see Catanzaro v Weiden, 188 F3d 56 [1999]). Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for defamation, the plaintiffs appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Dye, J.), dated September 17, 2002, as granted that branch of the defendants’ motion which was to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a cause of action and, in effect, denied that branch of their cross motion which was for leave to serve an amended complaint if the motion was granted. Ordered that the appeal from so much of the order as, in effect, denied that branch of the cross motion which was for leave to serve an amended complaint if the motion was granted is dismissed as academic; and it is further, Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as reviewed, that branch of the motion which was to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a cause of action is denied, and the complaint is reinstated; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the plaintiffs. The plaintiff Jose Vaz is the superintendent of a cooperative apartment building where he resides with his wife, the plaintiff Antinea Vaz, and their two children. The defendants reside in an apartment in the building. The plaintiffs commenced this action to recover damages for defamation and other torts, alleging that the defendants, individually and acting in concert with one another, made a false report of child abuse, which was ultimately determined to be unfounded. The defendants moved, inter alia, to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7) for failure to state a cause of action. They did not specifically address each of the causes of action, but generally contended that the complaint was meritless and that, if they had made such a report, their conduct was protected by a qualified privilege. The Supreme Court, without discussion or explanation, granted that branch of the defendants’ motion which was to dismiss the complaint. In addition to those individuals and institutions required by law to report cases of suspected child abuse or maltreatment (see Social Services Law § 413), “any person may make such a report if such person has reasonable cause to suspect that a child is an abused or maltreated child” (Social Services Law § 414). Pursuant to Social Services Law § 419, an individual or institution making such a report is entitled to immunity if the report was made in good faith. While the good faith of those statutorily required to report cases of suspected child abuse or maltreatment is presumed (see Social Services Law § 419), here the defendants’ alleged conduct is not presumptively privileged. Assuming the truth of the allegations in the complaint and in an affidavit submitted by Mr. Vaz, and giving the plaintiffs the benefit of every favorable inference (see Rovello v Orofino Realty Co., 40 NY2d 633 [1976]), the complaint states a cause of action. The plaintiffs sufficiently allege that the defendants made a false report of child abuse, that they did not have reasonable cause to suspect child abuse (see Social Services Law § 414), and that they did not act in good faith (see Memory Gardens v D’Amico, 91 AD2d 1160 [1983]). Consequently, the Supreme Court should have denied that branch of the defendants’ motion which was to dismiss the complaint. The plaintiffs’ remaining contention has been rendered academic in light of our determination. Altman, J.E, Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Dowd, J.), entered May 10, 2002, which, upon the granting of the plaintiff’s motion pursuant to CELR 4401 for judgment as a matter of law on the issue of liability and upon a jury verdict on the issue of damages awarding the plaintiff $40,000 for past pain and suffering and $315,000 for future pain and suffering, is in favor of the plaintiff and against them. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the facts and as an exercise of discretion, by deleting the provision thereof awarding the plaintiff damages for future pain and suffering, and granting a new trial with respect thereto; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed, with costs to the appellants, unless within 30 days after service upon the plaintiff of a copy of this decision and order, the plaintiff shall serve and file in the office of the Clerk of the Supreme Court, Kings County, a written stipulation consenting to reduce the verdict as to future pain and suffering from the sum of $315,000 to the sum of $135,000, and to the entry of an amended judgment accordingly; in the event that the plaintiff so stipulates, then the judgment, as so reduced and amended, is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The defendants’ contention that the jury’s responses to the interrogatories were internally inconsistent is unpreserved for appellate review, as no objection to the verdict was made on this ground before the jury was discharged (see Barry v Manglass, 55 NY2d 803, 806 [1981]; Delacruz v Galaxy Elec., 300 AD2d 278 [2002]; Reese v New York City Bd. of Educ., 297 AD2d 793 [2002]). The defendants further contend that the Supreme Court committed reversible error in permitting the plaintiffs expert to read from a magnetic resonance imaging (hereinafter MRI) report, which was not in evidence, regarding the condition of the plaintiffs lower back (see Adkins v Queens Van-Plan, 293 AD2d 503 [2002]). However, the Supreme Court later instructed the jury that the MRI report was not in evidence and to “please disregard any reading of that particular MRI report.” Although the defendants argue on appeal that this curative instruction was inadequate, they failed to object or request a further instruction. Therefore, the claim, also, is unpreserved for appellate review (see Doyle v Nusser, 288 AD2d 176 [2001]). During the trial, the Supreme Court precluded the testimony of one of the defendants’ experts. On appeal, the defendants contend that the ruling was erroneous based on 22 NYCRR 202.17. This contention is unpreserved for appellate review, as the parties’ arguments concerning this witness took place, for the most part, off the record, and there is no indication that the arguments now made on appeal concerning 22 NYCRR 202.17 were raised before the Supreme Court (see Panzarino v Carella, 247 AD2d 521 [1998]; see also Jones v Brilar Enters., 184 AD2d 1077 [1992]). We decline to review the unpreserved issues raised by the defendants. The damages award for future pain and suffering deviates materially from what would be reasonable compensation to the extent indicated (see CPLR 5501 [c]). Ritter, J.P., Goldstein, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for medical malpractice, the plaintiff appeals from (1) so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Weiss, J), dated June 14, 2002, as granted those branches of the separate motions of the defendants Joseph Blanco and TLC The Laser Center (Northeast), Inc., which were for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action sounding in medical malpractice, and (2) an order of the same court dated August 19, 2002, which denied the plaintiffs motion, denominated as one for leave to renew and reargue, but which in fact was for leave to reargue, and the defendants separately cross-appeal, as limited by their briefs, from so much of the order dated June 14, 2002, as denied those branches of their separate motions which were for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action sounding in lack of informed consent. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated August 19, 2002, is dismissed; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated June 14, 2002, is affirmed insofar as appealed from; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated June 14, 2002, is reversed insofar as cross-appealed from, and those branches of the separate motions of the defendants Joseph Blanco and TLC The Laser Center (Northeast), Inc., which were for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action sounding in lack of informed consent are granted; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the defendants. The plaintiffs motion, denominated as one for leave to renew and reargue, was in fact a motion for leave to reargue (see CPLR 2221 [d] [2]), the denial of which is not appealable (see Sabetfard v Smith, 306 AD2d 265, 266 [2003]). The defendants made a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law on the cause of action sounding in medical malpractice, tendering sufficient evidence to demonstrate the absence of any material issue of fact. In opposition, the plaintiffs submissions were insufficient to raise a triable issue of fact (see Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]; Mendez v City of New York, 295 AD2d 487 [2002]). The plaintiff failed to establish that the defendant Dr. Blanco’s choice of the Photorefractive Keratectomy (PRK) procedure over the Laser In-Situ Keratomileusis (LASIK) procedure was the proximate cause of the corneal infections which she sustained, or that such infections could have been prevented with the use of another prophylactic antibiotic (see Nestorowich v Ricotta, 97 NY2d 393, 398-400 [2002]; Lyons v McCauley, 252 AD2d 516, 517 [1998]; Fallon v Loree, 136 AD2d 956 [1988]; Schreiber v Cestari, 40 AD2d 1025, 1026 [1972]). Given that the plaintiff cannot establish proximate cause, the defendants were also entitled to summary judgment on the cause of action sounding in lack of informed consent (see Public Health Law § 2805-d [1], [3]; Mondo v Ellstein, 302 AD2d 437, 438 [2003]; Spano v Bertocci, 299 AD2d 335, 337-338 [2002]; Bernard v Block, 176 AD2d 843, 848 [1991]). Prudenti, PJ., Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the attorney for the plaintiffs appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Ambrosio, J.), dated July 1, 2002, which granted the motion of Louis C. Fiabane to impose a lien and determined that Fiabane is entitled to 10% of the fee obtained in the action. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, and the motion is denied. The plaintiffs were injured in a motor vehicle accident and retained Louis C. Fiabane to represent them. In retainer agreements, which were filed with the Office of Court Administration, the plaintiffs agreed to pay Fiabane one third of the recovery as compensation. In the one-month period he was handling the case before he was discharged, Fiabane, among other things, wrote letters, reviewed the accident report, and obtained copies of the plaintiffs’ medical records. Before the commencement of any action, the plaintiffs discharged Fiabane and retained Dominick W Lavelle. Several months later, Lavelle instituted this personal injury action on behalf of the plaintiffs and eventually obtained a settlement for them. Approximately two years after his discharge, Fiabane moved to impose a lien on the recovery for the preliminary services he rendered. The judicial hearing officer who heard the matter found that Fiabane was an attorney of record and determined that he was entitled to a lien. The Supreme Court granted Fiabane’s motion and directed that he receive 10% of the fee obtained. We reverse. Pursuant to Judiciary Law § 475, an attorney may be awarded a lien only if he or she has appeared for the client by “participating in a legal proceeding on the client’s behalf or by having his [or her] name affixed to the pleadings, motions, records, briefs, or other papers submitted in the matter” (Ebert v New York City Heath & Hosps. Corp., 210 AD2d 292, 292-293 [1994]; see Matter of Picciolo v State of New York, 287 AD2d 721, 722 [2001]; Cataldo v Budget Rent A Car Corp., 226 AD2d 574 [1996]; see also Rodriguez v City of New York, 66 NY2d 825, 827 [1985]). Preliminary services performed by an attorney discharged before the commencement of an action do not entitle that attorney to a lien under Judiciary Law § 475 (see Matter of Picciolo v State of New York, supra). The filing of a retainer agreement with the Office of Court Administration does not constitute an appearance in a legal proceeding sufficient to make him or her an attorney of record (see Rodriguez v City of New York, supra at 827; Ebert v New York City Health & Hosps. Corp., supra at 293). Accordingly, the motion should have been denied. In light of our determination, there is no need to address the parties’ remaining contentions. Ritter, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries and wrongful death, etc., the plaintiffs appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Orange County (Peter C. Patsalos, J.), dated November 8, 2002, which, upon the granting of the defendants’ motion pursuant to CPLR 4401 for judgment as a matter of law at the close of the plaintiffs’ case, dismissed the complaint. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the plaintiffs and giving them the benefit of every favorable inference (see Zboray v Fessler, 154 AD2d 367 [1989]), the Supreme Court correctly granted the defendants’ motion pursuant to CPLR 4401 for judgment as a matter of law at the close of the plaintiffs case due to the plaintiffs’ failure to make out a prima facie case. To impose liability against an out-of-possession landlord for injuries caused by a tenant’s animal on a theory of strict liability, a plaintiff must prove that the landlord had notice of the animal’s presence, knew or should have known of its vicious propensities, and had the ability to control the premises or confine or remove the animal (see Madaia v Petro, 291 AD2d 482 [2002]; Mehl v Fleisher, 234 AD2d 274 [1996]). The plaintiffs adduced no evidence that the subject horse had ever exhibited any vicious propensities. Insofar as the plaintiffs seek to impute alleged causative mistreatment of the horse to the defendants, their claims are without merit, since any failure to care for the horse was attributable to the tenants on the farm who owned the horse, and not to the defendants. Moreover, the plaintiffs did not establish any actionable negligence attributable to the defendants (see Williams v City of New York, 306 AD2d 203 [2003]; cf. Faller v Schwartz, 303 AD2d 624 [2003]; Colarusso v Dunne, 286 AD2d 37 [2001]; St. Germain v Dutchess County Agric. Socy., 274 AD2d 146 [2000]; Schwartz v Erpf Estate, 255 AD2d 35 [1999]). The plaintiffs’ remaining contentions are without merit. Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action pursuant to Insurance Law § 3420 (b) to recover an unsatisfied judgment against the defendant’s insured, the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Richmond County (Pizzuto, JHO), dated August 27, 2002, which, after hearing, granted the defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint and denied their separate cross motions for summary judgment. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The plaintiffs commenced this action to recover upon default judgments obtained against the defendant’s insured, 3995 Restaurant Corp., after sustaining injuries on its premises on June 2, 1996. The defendant moved to dismiss the action, claiming that 3995 Restaurant Corp. cancelled its liquor liability insurance policy on June 1, 1996. After a hearing, the Supreme Court granted the defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint and denied the plaintiffs’ separate cross motions for summary judgment. We agree with the Supreme Court that the defendant established that the liquor liability insurance policy was effectively cancelled on June 1, 1996, at 12:01 a.m., by oral notification. The evidence adduced at the hearing was sufficient to establish that the defendant waived strict compliance with the cancellation provisions of the liquor liability insurance policy, which provided for written notice of cancellation (see Matter of Country-Wide Ins. Co. v Wagoner, 57 AD2d 498, 503 [1977], revd on other grounds 45 NY2d 581 [1978]; M & M Jewelry Creations v Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 26 AD2d 816 [1966]). The plaintiffs failed to adduce evidence sufficient to defeat the motion to dismiss and failed to establish their entitlement to summary judgment. Altman, J.E, Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a hybrid proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 and an action for a judgment declaring, inter alia, Resolution No. 2001-529 of the Town Board of the Town of Ramapo void, the petitioners appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Rockland County (Kelly, J.), dated September 19, 2002, which granted the separate motions of the Town of Ramapo, Christopher R St. Lawrence, Edward Friedman, Frances M. Hunter, Harry Reiss, David Stein, and Jo Anne Soules, and the respondent Fountainview at College Road, Inc., to dismiss the petition. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, by adding a provision thereto declaring that Resolution No. 2001-529 of the Town Board of the Town of Ramapo is legal and valid; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed, with one bill of costs payable to the respondents appearing separately and filing separate briefs. The resolution adopted by the Town Board of the Town of Ramapo, which settled certain litigation between the Town of Ramapo and Fountainview at College Road, Inc., was specifically authorized by Town Law § 68 (4). Therefore, the Supreme Court correctly declined to declare that the resolution and the stipulation of settlement were invalid (see Matter of Nassau Shores Civic Assn. v Colby, 118 AD2d 782 [1986]), and properly granted the motions to dismiss the petition. However, since the petitioners requested a declaratory judgment, the judgment should be modified by adding a declaration that the resolution is legal and valid (see Lanza v Wagner, 11 NY2d 317 [1962], appeal dismissed 371 US 74 [1962], cert denied 371 US 901 [1962]). The petitioners’ remaining contentions are without merit. Ritter, J.P., Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
— In a family offense proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 8, Antonina Bongiorno appeals from an order of the Family Court, Queens County (Heffernan, J), dated December 16, 2002, which, after a hearing, dismissed her petition for an order of protection against Andrea Bongiorno. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The Family Court properly dismissed the petition upon its finding that the petitioner failed to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the respondent committed acts constituting a cognizable family offense (see Family Ct Act § 832). The determination whether the respondent committed such acts was a disputed factual issue for the Family Court to resolve. As the trier of fact, its determination regarding the credibility of the witnesses is entitled to great weight (see Matter of Pearsall v Martin-Zenick, 267 AD2d 240 [1999]), and we find no basis to reverse its determination. The petitioner’s remaining contentions are without merit. Krausman, J.P., McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding, in effect, pursuant to CFLR article 78 to vacate the sale of a parcel of unimproved realty at public auction by the County of Suffolk to Barbara Bowins on May 23, 2001, the County of Suffolk appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Lifson, J.), dated May 29, 2002, which, in effect, granted the petition to the extent of determining that the sale violated Suffolk County Local Law No. 12-2000 and remanding the matter to the Suffolk County Legislature for further action, and the petitioner cross-appeals from stated portions of the same judgment. Ordered that the cross appeal is dismissed as abandoned (see 22 NYCRR 670.8 [c], [e]); and it is further, Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, with costs, the petition is denied, and the proceeding is dismissed. In November 2000 the petitioner, Craig L. Elgut, a resident of Christian Avenue in Stony Brook, learned that the County of Suffolk was planning to sell a parcel of substandard land adjacent to his property at a public auction. Shortly before the November 15, 2000, auction, an addendum was added to the auction brochure which described the various properties for sale. The addendum consisted of a “planning restrictive covenant” that noted that the parcels “are substandard and cannot be independently developed” and were offered for sale with a restrictive covenant to that effect. The auction was held, but neither the petitioner nor anyone else bid on the subject parcel. The petitioner asserts that the planning restrictive covenant obviated his concern that the property might be developed and therefore negated his need to acquire the premises. The County relisted the parcel for sale, without the aforementioned condition, and at an auction on May 23, 2001, Barbara Bowins purchased the property. Bowins subsequently applied to the Town of Brookhaven’s Board of Zoning Appeals for several area variances in order to develop the site, prompting the petitioner to file this proceeding to vacate the conveyance or, in the alternative, to compel inclusion of the restriction as a condition of the sale. The petitioner alleges that the sale of the premises without the planning restrictive covenant and prior notice to him violated Suffolk County Local Law No. 12 of 2000 (see Suffolk County Code ch 141), which mandates, inter alia, that whenever the County “formally agrees and commits to a change in the physical use of vacant county-owned property by construction or improvement, the pertinent county department, office or agency having jurisdiction over implementation of the change in the physical use of such property shall provide adequate public and written notice to all property owners located within 200 feet of the proposed change in use” (Suffolk County Code § 141-2 [A]). After a hearing, the Supreme Court found, inter alia, that the County failed to provide the petitioner with adequate notice of the May 23, 2001, sale in accordance with Suffolk County Code § 141-2 (A), and remanded the matter to the Suffolk County Legislature for further action. A court’s function in interpreting a statute is to “attempt to effectuate the intent of the Legislature, and where the statutory language is clear and unambiguous, the court should construe it so as to give effect to the plain meaning of the words used” (Matter of 1605 Book Ctr. v Tax Appeals Tribunal of State of N.Y., 83 NY2d 240, 244 [1994], cert denied 513 US 811 [1994] [internal quotation marks omitted]; Doctors Council v New York City Employees’ Retirement Sys., 71 NY2d 669, 674-675 [1988]; Patrolmen’s Benevolent Assn. v City of New York, 41 NY2d 205, 208 [1976]). The planning restrictive covenant simply reiterated that the parcels for sale were “substandard” and, under existing law, could “not be independently developed” without a variance. It did not constitute “a change in the physical use of vacant county-owned property by construction or improvement” (Suffolk County Code § 141-2 [A]), but was merely a condition of the November 15, 2000, auction. In any event, since the premises were not purchased on November 15, 2000, a contract with that proposed, albeit superfluous, condition was never effectuated. Suffolk County Local Law No. 12 of 2000 was therefore not implicated and the County’s determination to relist the property for sale on May 23, 2001, without that language or notice to the petitioner was neither arbitrary nor capricious. Accordingly, we reverse the judgment and dismiss the proceeding. Altman, J.E, Goldstein, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a custody proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 6, the petitioner father appeals from an order of the Family Court, Orange County (Klein, J.), dated November 20, 2002, which, without a hearing, granted the motion of the respondent mother to dismiss the petition, and dismissed the petition. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The father, who sought modification of an order of visitation, failed to make an evidentiary showing that there had been a material change of circumstances since that order was entered (see Matter of Goldberg v Goldberg, 300 AD2d 585 [2002]; Matter of Blake v Vilbig, 288 AD2d 470 [2001]; Matter of Milhollen v Voelpel, 270 AD2d 422 [2000]; Matter of Brocher v Brocher, 213 AD2d 544 [1995]). Accordingly, the Family Court properly granted the mother’s motion to dismiss the petition. Altman, J.E, Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CFLR article 78 to review a determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Huntington, dated February 13, 2002, which, after a hearing, inter alia, granted the application of the respondents Thomas Coughlin and Margaret Coughlin for three lot-width variances and one rear-yard variance, the petitioner appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Molia, J.), dated October 10, 2002, as, upon an order of the same court entered September 4, 2002, denied the petition and dismissed the proceeding. Ordered that the plaintiffs notice of appeal from the order is deemed a premature notice of appeal from the judgment (see CFLR 5520 [c]); and it is further, Ordered that the judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The respondents Thomas Coughlin and Margaret Coughlin own a 3.3-acre parcel of land located in the Town of Huntington. The petitioner, Jonathan H. Kaufman, is an owner of a parcel of land which abuts their property. In 2001 the Coughlins went forward with plans to subdivide their parcel into three lots. This required the Coughlins to apply to the respondent Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Huntington (hereinafter the ZBA) for lot-width and rear-yard variances, and seek approval from the Planning Board of the Town of Huntington (hereinafter the Planning Board), which has jurisdiction over the creation of subdivisions. The Coughlins first applied to the ZBA for the variances. The petitioner appeared at the hearing and objected on the grounds that the variances would have a negative impact on his property and an adverse impact on the community as a whole. The ZBA granted the Coughlins’ application for the variances on condition that they apply to the Planning Board for permission to subdivide their land. The petitioner thereafter commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding to review the ZBA’s determination on the ground, inter alia, that the ZBA had exceeded its jurisdiction and usurped the power of the Planning Board by granting variances which, in effect, created a subdivision. The Supreme Court denied the petition and dismissed the proceeding. When reviewing a determination of a zoning board of appeals, a court is limited to determining whether the board’s action is illegal, arbitrary, or an abuse of discretion (see Matter of Ifrah v Utschig, 98 NY2d 304, 308 [2002]; Matter of Fuhst v Foley, 45 NY2d 441, 444 [1978]; Matter of Tarantino v Zoning Bd. of Appeals of Town of Brookhaven, 228 AD2d 511, 512 [1996]; Matter of Smith v Board of Appeals of Town of Islip, 202 AD2d 674, 675 [1994]). In the present case, the ZBA did not exceed its jurisdiction in granting the Coughlins the lot-width and rear-yard variances on the express and significant condition that they apply to the Planning Board for permission to subdivide their land (cf. Matter of Buckley v Amityville Vil. Clerk, 264 AD2d 732, 735 [1999]; Matter of Cohalan v Schermerhorn, 77 Misc 2d 23, 28 [1973]). Contrary to the petitioner’s arguments, the ZBA did not exercise its power in such a way as to, in effect, approve a subdivision plat (cf. Matter of Eccles v Zoning Bd. of Appeals of Vil. of Irvington, 200 AD2d 570 [1994]). The petitioner’s remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.P, Crane, Mastro and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a juvenile delinquency proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 3, the appeal is from an order of disposition of the Family Court, Kings County (Pearce, J.), dated September 5, 2001, which, upon a fact-finding order of the same court dated April 26, 2001, made after a hearing, finding that the appellant had committed an act which, if committed by an adult, would have constituted the crime of sodomy in the first degree, adjudged him to be a juvenile delinquent and placed him under the supervision of the Probation Department of Kings County for a period of 12 months. The appeal brings up for review the fact-finding order dated April 26, 2001. Ordered that the order of disposition is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The trial court providently exercised its discretion in allowing the eight-year-old complainant to testify as a sworn witness, as she understood the difference between truth and falsity, the legal and moral consequences of lying, and the importance of telling the truth at the proceeding (see Matter of James B., 262 AD2d 480 [1999]; Matter of Joseph C., 185 AD2d 883 [1992]; cf. CPL 60.20 [2]). Furthermore, a trial court’s determination with respect to a witness’s competency will not be disturbed unless clearly erroneous (see People v Nisoff, 36 NY2d 560 [1975]; Matter of Joseph C., supra; People v Schultz, 168 AD2d 468 [1990]). Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the presentment agency (see Matter of Darnell S., 300 AD2d 666 [2002]; cf. People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to support the fact-finding order. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see Matter of Stevenson J., 306 AD2d 412 [2003]; cf. People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84 [1903]). Its determination should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (cf. People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the findings of fact were not against the weight of the evidence (cf. CPL 470.15 [5]). Santucci, J.P, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to SCPA 2105, the petitioner appeals from a decree of the Surrogate’s Court, Westchester County (Scarpino, S.), dated September 20, 2002, which, inter alia, granted the motion of Philip C. Potter, Jr., executor of the estate of Emily Potter Morse, for summary judgment dismissing the petition. Ordered that the decree is affirmed, with costs payable by the petitioner personally. The petitioner alleges that by an oral agreement between her and the decedent and her father, Forbes Morse (hereinafter Forbes), she agreed to convey a certain property to the decedent and Forbes for $60,000 on condition that they would devise the property to her. Forbes died leaving the property to the decedent. The decedent added two codicils to her will shortly before her death which changed the devise of the property from the petitioner to relatives of the decedent. The petitioner seeks to have the executor of the decedent’s estate give her the proceeds from the sale of the property. The Surrogate’s Court granted the executor’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the petition on the ground that the statute of frauds (see EPTL 13-2.1 [a] [2]) bars enforcement of the alleged oral promise. We affirm. A contract to bequeath property or to make a testamentary provision must be in writing to be enforceable • (see EPTL 13-2.1 [a] [2]; Dombrowski v Somers, 41 NY2d 858 [1977]). Further, a promise to refrain from altering an existing will must be reduced to a writing (see Rubin v Irving Trust Co., 305 NY 288 [1953]). The executor made a prima facie showing of entitlement to summary judgment. In opposition, the writings submitted by the petitioner as evidence of the alleged promise were insufficient to raise a triable issue of fact as to the existence of the promise (see Rubin v Irving Trust Co., supra at 297-300; Amico v Graphic Arts Leasing, 231 AD2d 596 [1996]; Oursler v Armstrong, 10 NY2d 385 [1961]; cf. Matter of Urdang, 304 AD2d 586 [2003]). Further, the testimony relied upon by the petitioner did not amount to a confirmation of the relevant terms of the agreement (see Rubin v Irving Trust Co., supra; Hamlin v Stevens, 177 NY 39, 50 [1903]). Moreover, the petitioner did not establish that her conveyance of the property to Forbes and the decedent for $60,000 was a partial performance “unequivocally referable” to the..alleged oral promise such that it removed the agreement from the statute of frauds (Anostario v Vicinanzo, 59 NY2d 662, 664 [1983]). Accordingly, the Surrogate’s Court properly granted the executor’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the petition. Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 to review a determination of the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles dated October 18, 2001, which affirmed a determination of an Administrative Law Judge of the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles dated October 11, 2000, which, after a hearing, found that the petitioner violated New York City Traffic Rules and Regulations (34 RCNY) § 4-15 (b) (9) and (10) and Vehicle and Traffic Law § 401 (7) (F) (b), and imposed a penalty. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, with costs, the petition is denied, and the proceeding is dismissed on the merits. Judicial review of a determination rendered by an administrative body after a hearing is limited to whether the determination is supported by substantial evidence upon the entire record (see 300 Gramatan Ave. Assoc. v State Div. of Human Rights, 45 NY2d 176 [1978]; Matter of Liuzzo v State of N.Y. Dept. of Motor Vehicles Appeals Bd., 209 AD2d 618 [1994]). A reviewing court will not undertake the functions of weighing evidence and assessing credibility, as those issues are committed to the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge (see Matter of Scara-Mix, Inc. v Martinez, 305 AD2d 418 [2003]). The testimony of the traffic enforcement agent who issued the summons regarding the location of the weighing site and his training, accompanied by certificates establishing the accuracy of the devices he used in weighing the petitioner’s vehicle, provided a sufficient basis for the determination of the Administrative Law Judge (see Matter of Scara-Mix, Inc. v Martinez, supra). The determination that the petitioner violated New York City Traffic Rules and Regulations (34 RCNY) § 4-15 (b) (9) and (10) and Vehicle and Traffic Law § 401 (7) (F) (b) is supported by substantial evidence, and we decline to disturb it. Krausman, J.E, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to Social Services Law § 384-b to terminate the mother’s parental rights on the ground of abandonment, the mother appeals from so much of an order of fact-finding and disposition (one paper) of the Family Court, Westchester County (Jamieson, J), entered May 30, 2002, as, upon a finding that she had abandoned the subject child without a dispositional hearing, terminated her parental rights and transferred custody and guardianship of the subject child to the Westchester County Department of Social Services for the purpose of adoption. Ordered that the order of fact-finding and disposition is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The Family Court properly determined that there was clear and convincing proof of the mother’s abandonment of her child during the six-month period before the filing of the petition, in view of the total absence of contact between her and the child during that period (see Social Services Law § 384-b [5] [a], [b]; Matter of Derrick J., 287 AD2d 503 [2001]; Matter of Tashara B., 299 AD2d 356, 357 [2002]). The mother’s incarceration did not prevent her from contacting her child or the agency by telephone or letter (see Matter of Derrick J., supra; Matter of Tashara B., supra). The petitioner was under no obligation to arrange for visitation (see Social Services Law § 384-b [5] [b]; Matter of Julius P., 63 NY2d 477, 484 [1984]; Matter of Derrick J., supra), and it did not prevent or discourage contact between the appellant and her child (see Matter of Derrick J., supra). Under the circumstances, the Family Court providently exercised its discretion when it determined that a dispositional hearing was not required before terminating the appellant’s parental rights (see Matter of Tashara B., supra). The appellant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 to annul a determination of the Office of Consumer Affairs of the County of Nassau dated February 28, 2002, which, after a hearing, found that the petitioner had engaged in unfair trade practices and imposed a fine of $2,500, the appeal is from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Franco, J.), entered June 28, 2002, which granted the petition. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, with costs, the petition is denied, and the proceeding is dismissed. This proceeding arises from the container redemption policy of the petitioner, Pathmark Stores, Inc. (hereinafter Pathmark), under the Returnable Container Act (hereinafter the Act), part of the New York State Environmental Conservation Law (ECL 27-1001 et seq.). The Act provides for the payment of a five-cent deposit when certain beverages are purchased in the state, as well as for the redemption of empty containers by vendors and distributors, and provides general guidelines therefor. In addition, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (hereinafter the DEC) is authorized to promulgate regulations implementing the Act (see ECL 27-1009, 27-1013, 27-1014), and the Attorney General is likewise empowered to enforce provisions of the Act (see ECL 71-2727). Pathmark’s redemption policy required customers to present vouchers from its reverse vending machines to its cashiers for payment within 24 hours of issuance by the machine. After receiving two complaints from Pathmark customers who were denied their refunds because of a failure to comply with this new policy, the Office of Consumer Affairs of the County of Nassau (hereinafter Consumer Affairs) investigated, which resulted in the issuance to Pathmark of a notice of violation for an unconscionable trade practice (see Nassau County Administrative Code § 21-10.2). After a hearing at which Pathmark was represented by counsel, the Hearing Officer issued a violation disposition. The Hearing Officer determined that Pathmark had committed an unconscionable trade practice by failing to post notice of this policy and depriving customers of their refunds, thereby violating the local consumer protection regulations, and imposed a fine of $2,500. Thereafter, Pathmark commenced this proceeding, asserting that Consumer Affairs did not have jurisdiction to enforce the ECL. The Supreme Court agreed with Pathmark, ruling that the Hearing Officer’s determination was “based exclusively on Pathmark’s alleged violation of state law,” and that since the DEC and the Attorney General have “exclusive” jurisdiction to enforce the Act and the DEC regulations, and only the DEC has authority to assess penalties for such violations, the local consumer protection law was preempted by the Act, and the respondents did not have jurisdiction to make a finding or impose a fine on Pathmark. We reverse. Initially, the Nassau County Unfair Trade Practices Act is a consumer protection law of general applicability to all deceptive and unconscionable trade practices, and its application to activities also subject to regulation under the Act does not trigger preemption (see generally DJL Rest. Corp. v City of New York, 96 NY2d 91, 97 [2001]). This is especially true because the two laws serve completely different purposes, the former seeking to protect consumers, and the latter seeking to preserve the environment and ensure public safety (see Myerson v Lentini Bros. Moving & Stor. Co., 33 NY2d 250, 255 [1973]; T & L Redemption Ctr. Corp. v Phoenix Beverages, 148 Misc 2d 578, 581 [1990]; see also ECL 27-1001). Further, the Act and other applicable legislation do not grant exclusive enforcement authority to the DEC and the Attorney General (see People v Port Distrib. Corp., 114 AD2d 259, 267-268 [1986]; Farmer v D’Agostino Supermarkets, 144 Misc 2d 631 [1989]). Accordingly, Consumer Affairs was entitled to enforce Nassau County’s consumer protection laws by fining Pathmark for its deception of consumers by imposing restrictions on their statutory redemption rights while failing to adequately disclose those restrictions. Finally, the Hearing Officer’s determination that Pathmark violated the local consumer protection law by failing to post notice of its restrictive redemption policy, thereby committing an unconscionable trade practice, had a rational basis and was supported by the record (see Flacke v Onondaga Landfill Sys., 69 NY2d 355 [1987]; Matter of Urban Forest Prods. v Zoning Bd. of Appeals for Town of Haverstraw, 300 AD2d 498 [2002]). The petitioner’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.P., Luciano, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
— In a proceeding pursuant to Social Services Law § 384-b to terminate parental rights on the ground of permanent neglect, the mother appeals from an order of fact finding and disposition of the Family Court, Queens County (Salinitro, J.), dated September 4, 2001, which, after fact finding and disposition hearings, found that she had permanently neglected the subject child, terminated her parental rights with respect to the child, and transferred custody of the child and guardianship rights to St. Christopher-Ottilie and the Commissioner of Social Services of the City of New York for purpose of adoption. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. Contrary to the mother’s contention, the petitioner agency met its burden of establishing, by clear and convincing evidence, that despite its diligent efforts to encourage and strengthen the parental relationship, she permanently neglected the child by failing to plan for her future (see Social Services Law § 384-b [7] [a]; Matter of Star Leslie W., 63 NY2d 136 [1984]; Matter of Sheila G., 61 NY2d 368 [1984]). Further, the Family Court’s finding that it was in the child’s best interests to terminate the mother’s parental rights and free her for adoption is supported by a preponderance of the evidence (see Matter of Star Leslie W., supra at 147-148). The mother’s remaining contentions are without merit. Krausman, J.E, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a child support proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, the father appeals (1), as limited by his brief, from so much of an order of the Family Court, Queens County (Borofsky, H.E.), dated March 28, 2001, as, after a hearing, directed him to pay the sum of $608 per week in child support and the sum of $51,072 in arrears, and (2) from an order of the same court (Friedman, J.), dated May 20, 2002, which denied his objections to the order dated March 28, 2001. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated March 28, 2001, is dismissed, without costs or disbursements, as that order was superseded by the order dated May 20, 2002; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated May 20, 2002, is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the mother. The Family Court properly sustained the Hearing Examiner’s determination directing the father to pay child support in the sum of $608 per week. Contrary to the father’s contentions, the Hearing Examiner properly found that his income was greater than that indicated in his most recent income tax return (see Matter of Graves v Smith, 284 AD2d 332, 333 [2001]; Matter of Mobley-Jennings v Dare, 226 AD2d 730 [1996]; see also Bittner v Bittner, 296 AD2d 516 [2002]; Matter of Gallager v Flaherty, 220 AD2d 867 [1995]). A court is not required to rely upon a party’s own account of his or her finances, and may impute income based upon that party’s past income or demonstrated earning potential (see Cohen v Cohen, 294 AD2d 184 [2002]; Matter of Graves v Smith, supra). Here, the Hearing Examiner properly imputed income to the father based on his past and present earning potential (see Matter of Kellogg v Kellogg, 300 AD2d 996 [2002]; Matter of Monroe County Dept. of Social Servs. [Mercado] v Mercado, 241 AD2d 948 [1997]). The father’s remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Ritter, J.R, Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In a contested probate proceeding, the petitioner appeals from an order of the Surrogate’s Court, Kings County (Feinberg, S.), dated May 12, 2003, which, in effect, denied her renewed motion for summary judgment to dismiss objections to the probate of the will of the decedent, Fay Libby Weinberg, dated April 6, 1997, and to admit the will to probate. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs payable by the objectants personally, the renewed motion is granted, the objections are dismissed, and the will is admitted to probate. “Where, as here, the attorney-draftsman supervised the will’s execution, there is a presumption of regularity that the will was properly executed in all respects” (Matter of Finocchio, 270 AD2d 418 [2000]; see Matter of Ziele, 242 AD2d 576 [1997]). Here, the petitioner met her prima facie burden in establishing that the will was properly executed in accordance with the formal requirements of EPTL 3-2.1. Further, the objectants failed to raise a triable issue of fact since they failed to present any evidence to support their claims of lack of proper execution, lack of testamentary capacity, undue influence, and fraud (see Matter of Walther, 6 NY2d 49 [1959]; Matter of Rosen, 291 AD2d 562 [2002]; Matter of Evanchuk, 145 AD2d 559 [1988]). As such, the Surrogate’s Court should have granted the renewed motion, dismissed the objections, and admitted the will to probate (see Matter of Herman, 289 AD2d 239 [2001]). The petitioner’s remaining contention is without merit. Santucci, J.P., Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
— Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated October 14, 1997 (People v Alston, 243 AD2d 573 [1997]), modifying a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered May 24, 1993. Ordered that the application is denied.. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, P.J., Santucci, Altman and S. Miller, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Orange County (DeRosa, J.), rendered April 13, 1999, convicting him of rape in the second degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). Ritter, J.P., Smith, Friedmann, H. Miller and Crane, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Orange County (DeRosa, J.), rendered November 13, 2002, convicting him of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s valid waiver of his right to appeal precludes review of his contentions that he should have been sentenced as a youthful offender (see People v Nye, 299 AD2d 371 [2002]; People v Hubbard, 288 AD2d 490 [2001]), and that the sentence imposed was excessive (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733 [1998]; People v Barnes, 306 AD2d 537 [2003]). Smith, J.P., Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Orange County (Rosenwasser, J.), rendered June 22, 2001 convicting him of attempted criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). Florio, J.P., Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Gary, J.), rendered June 4, 2002, convicting him of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh degree, after a nonjury trial, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]; People v Younger, 299 AD2d 431 [2002]). Ritter, J.P., Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Knipel, J.), rendered April 3, 2001, convicting him of manslaughter in the first degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the trial court providently exercised its discretion by denying his challenge for cause of a prospective juror who did not exhibit a state of mind that was likely to preclude her from rendering an impartial verdict (see CPL 270.20 [1] [b]; People v Hagenbuch, 267 AD2d 948 [1999]; People v Harris, 247 AD2d 630 [1998]). The trial court properly granted the application of Hybrid Films, Inc., to quash the defendant’s subpoena for certain videotaped recordings of the defendants interaction with the police. This Court previously held that the defendant would be entitled to the release of the material in question only if he satisfied the three-prong test set forth in Civil Rights Law § 79-h, to wit, that the item is highly material and relevant, critical or necessary to the defense, and not obtainable from any alternative source (see Matter of Hybrid Films v Combest, 281 AD2d 500, 501 [2001]). The defendant failed to satisfy the requirements of Civil Rights Law § 79-h. The defendant’s remaining contention is without merit (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). Ritter, J.P., Smith, Goldstein and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
— Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated May 28, 2002 (People v Cooper, 294 AD2d 592 [2002]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered March 1, 1999. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Florio, J.P., Smith, Krausman and Townes, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Latella, J.), rendered January 29, 2002, convicting him of robbery in the first degree, robbery in the second degree, and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that he was prejudiced by certain remarks of the prosecutor during summation is unpreserved for appellate review (see People v Heide, 84 NY2d 943 [1994]; People v Hermonstyne, 273 AD2d 408 [2000]). In any event, the majority of the prosecutor’s remarks constituted fair comment on the evidence and were responsive to arguments and issues raised by the defense (see People v Silva, 306 AD2d 424 [2003]; see generally People v Galloway, 54 NY2d 396 [1981]; People v Ashwal, 39 NY2d 105 [1976]). To the extent that any of the prosecutor’s comments constituted error, the Supreme Court acted promptly to remove any prejudicial effect (see People v Ashwal, supra; People v Hermonstyne, supra). Moreover, any errors which may have occurred during the prosecutor’s summation were harmless in view of the overwhelming evidence of the defendant’s guilt (see People v Rodriguez, 100 NY2d 30 [2003]; People v Crimmins, 36 NY2d 230 [1975]). Smith, J.P., Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Blumenfeld, J.), rendered May 30, 2002, convicting him of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree, criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree, and resisting arrest, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86, 88 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80, 83 [1982]). S. Miller, J.P., Friedmann, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County (Honorof, J.), rendered February 14, 2002, convicting him of robbery in the second degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. The appeal brings up for review the denial, after a hearing, of that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was to suppress identification testimony. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently entered into the plea agreement and the concomitant waiver of his right to appeal all aspects of this case except his claim that his right to a speedy trial was violated. Thus, he has waived all nonjurisdictional defects in the proceedings and cannot now challenge the propriety of the court’s determination at the Wade hearing (see United States v Wade, 388 US 218 [1967]; People v Beaton, 303 AD2d 593 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 578 [2003]; People v Montes, 302 AD2d 610 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 564 [2003]). In light of our determination, we need not reach' the defendant’s remaining contentions. Ritter, J.P., Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
— Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated May 21, 2001 (People v Dupont, 283 AD2d 587 [2001]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered May 19, 1998. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, P.J., Ritter, Smith and Cozier, JJ., concur.
— Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated December 24, 2001 (People v Flowers, 289 AD2d 504 [2001], Iv denied 97 NY2d 754 [2003]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County, rendered February 8, 1999. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Ritter, J.P., Smith, Goldstein and Schmidt, JJ., concur.
— Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated March 23,1998 (People u Hawkins, 248 AD2d 634 [1998]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County, rendered March 5, 1997. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, P.J., Santucci, Friedmann and McGinity, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Cooperman, J.), rendered February 8, 2002, convicting him of attempted murder in the second degree, assault in the first degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt (see People v Williams, 84 NY2d 925, 926 [1994]). The defendant contends that the jury should not have believed the prosecution’s witnesses. However, issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be afforded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86, 88 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). Ritter, J.P., Goldstein, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Carroll, J.), rendered June 28, 2000, convicting him of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. The appeal brings up for review the denial, after a hearing, of that branch of the defendant’s omnibus motion which was to suppress physical evidence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the Supreme Court properly denied suppression of the gun recovered from him. The detective’s limited pat-down search of the defendant was proper because he had a reasonable basis to fear for his physical safety (see CPL 140.50 [3]; People v Abdul-Hakim, 289 AD2d 587 [2001]; People v Bannister, 220 AD2d 520, 521 [1995]; People v DeJesus, 55 AD2d 196, 201 [1976]). Moreover, the defendant did not demonstrate that he was denied the effective assistance of counsel due to his trial counsel’s failure to move to reopen the suppression hearing (see People v Rivera, 7,1 NY2d 705, 708-709 [1988]; People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137 [1981]; People v Walker, 282 AD2d 628 [2001]; People v Lam, 226 AD2d 554, 555 [1996]; People v McFadden, 118 AD2d 805 [1986]). Finally, the defendant did not preserve for appellate review his contention that the trial court improperly based his sentence on crimes of which he was acquitted (see People v Harrison, 82 NY2d 693, 694 [1993]). In any event, this contention is without merit, and the sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Ferere, 294 AD2d 596, 597 [2002]; People v Hopper, 277 AD2d 171, 172 [2000]; People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]; cf. People v Ramsey, 288 AD2d 240, 241 [2001]; People v Innis, 288 AD2d 236 [2001]; People v Santiago, 277 AD2d 258, 259 [2000]). Prudenti, P.J., Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Blumenfeld, J.), rendered January 17, 2002, convicting him of robbery in the second degree (two counts), upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The majority of the defendant’s challenges to the prosecutor’s remarks on summation are unpreserved for appellate review (see People v Campbell, 271 AD2d 693 [2000]; People v Lamour, 203 AD2d 388 [1994]). In any event, the remarks made by the prosecutor do not require reversal. They were proper responses to arguments made by the defense counsel during summation and were fair comment on the evidence (see People v Campbell, supra; People v Lamour, supra). Moreover, “those comments to which objections were registered were followed by curative instructions, subsequent to which the defendant neither asked for further curative instructions nor moved for a mistrial, thereby indicating that the court had sufficiently cured any error to his satisfaction” (People v Rosario, 195 AD2d 577 [1993]). Ritter, J.P., Smith, Goldstein and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Leventhal, J.), rendered September 25, 2001, convicting him of criminal contempt in the first degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the trial court properly permitted the prosecution to introduce evidence of his past threatening conduct toward the complainant. This evidence was relevant background material to enable the jury to understand the defendant’s relationship with the complainant, to explain the issuance of an order of protection, and to prove the defendant’s intent to violate a subsequent order of protection (see People v Lawrence, 297 AD2d 290, 291 [2002]; People v Howe, 292 AD2d 542 [2002]; People v Wright, 288 AD2d 409, 410 [2001]; People v Howard, 285 AD2d 560 [2001]). Moreover, the trial court providently exercised its discretion in denying the defendant’s motion for a mistrial based on a brief reference during the complainant’s re-direct examination to past physical abuse by the defendant. The trial court sustained defense counsel’s objection to the testimony, struck it from the record, and gave an immediate curative instruction. This was sufficient to protect the defendant’s rights (see People v Vilsaint, 293 AD2d 555, 556 [2002]; People v Howe, supra; People v Brown, 249 AD2d 320 [1998]), particularly because defense counsel had already elicited the information contained in the statement during cross-examination (see People v Carillo, 297 AD2d 288, 289 [2002]). Altman, J.P., Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
— Application by the appellant for a writ of error co-ram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated April 2, 2001 (People v Moss, 282 AD2d 475 [2001]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered June 16, 1998. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, P.J., Ritter, Smith and Goldstein, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Westchester County (Adler, J.), rendered February 4, 2002, convicting him of murder in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s Batson challenge (see Batson v Kentucky, 476 US 79 [1986]) was properly denied since he failed to establish a prima facie case of discrimination. To establish such a prima facie case, a defendant must demonstrate that members of a cognizable racial group were excluded from the jury venire, and that facts and other relevant circumstances support an inference of impermissible discrimination (see People v Childress, 81 NY2d 263, 266 [1993]; People v Wilson, 297 AD2d 298 [2002]). The defendant failed to satisfy the second element. His assertion that the prosecutor struck a disproportionate number of black Jamaican venirepersons was insufficient to establish a pattern of purposeful exclusion which would raise an inference of discrimination (see People v Childress, supra; People v Wilson, supra; People v Collins, 290 AD2d 513 [2001]). The defendant’s contention that the verdict was against the weight of the evidence is without merit. Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant shot his girlfriend in the face at close range, and left her to die without seeking medical attention. “It is clear that the crime' was ‘committed under circumstances which evidenced a wanton indifference to human life or a depravity of mind’ ” (People v Kanelos, 107 AD2d 764, 765 [1985], quoting People v Register, 60 NY2d 270, 274 [1983]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.P., Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from an amended judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Ruchelsman, J.), rendered April 30, 2001, revoking a sentence of probation previously imposed by the same court (Firetog, J.), upon a finding that he had violated a condition thereof, after a hearing, and imposing a sentence upon his previous conviction of robbery in the third degree. Ordered that the amended judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the Supreme Court improperly sentenced him on the violation of probation because it lacked an updated presentence report is unpreserved for appellate review (see People v Pitter, 272 AD2d 416 [2000]; People v Oyebanji, 246 AD2d 560 [1998]; CPL 470.05). In any event, the contention is without merit (see People v Kuey, 83 NY2d 278 [1994]; People v Cannon, 208 AJD2d 942 [1994]; People v Jackson, 106 AD2d 93, 98 [1984]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]): Altman, J.P., S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (D’Emic, J.), rendered May 31, 2001, convicting him of course of sexual conduct against a child in the first degree and endangering the welfare of a child, after a nonjury trial, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant failed to preserve for appellate review his challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence adduced by the prosecution corroborating his confessions as required by CPL 60.50 (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Santos, 86 NY2d 869, 870-871 [1995]; People v Mosca, 294 AD2d 938 [2002]). In any event, there was sufficient independent evidence to establish the defendant’s commission of the crimes of which he was convicted (see People v Chico, 90 NY2d 585, 588-589 [1997]). Independent evidence established that at the times of the sexual assaults, the defendant was the sole adult present at the crime scenes while the victim’s mother attended Parent-Teacher Association meetings (see People v Lipsky, 57 NY2d 560 [1982]). Furthermore, the victim’s mother testified regarding her daughter’s timely outcry (see People v Anthony D., 259 AD2d 1011 [1999]; People v Bott, 234 AD2d 625, 626 [1996]). Contrary to the opinion of our dissenting colleagues, we are not persuaded that the defendant was deprived of his right to a fair trial. The defendant contends, and the dissent agrees, that the trial court exhibited bias against him, apparently as a result of its awareness of the evidence of the defendant’s confessions elicited during the course of the pretrial Huntley hearing (see People v Huntley, 15 NY2d 72 [1965]). The defendant suggests that the trial court thus improperly aided the prosecution in eliciting prejudicial testimony from the young complainant. Initially, the defendant failed to raise any specific, relevant objections to the trial court’s alleged bias or its alleged excessive involvement in the examination of the complainant. Thus, these claims are unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Smalls, 293 AD2d 500 [2002]; People v Mujtaba, 251 AD2d 515 [1998]; People v Gonzalez, 246 AD2d 667 [1998]; People v Whitehead, 155 AD2d 567 [1989]). Moreover, as acknowledged by the dissent, the mere fact that a judge presides over a pretrial Huntley hearing (see People v Huntley, supra), does not disqualify that judge from presiding over the nonjury trial that follows, as a judge is presumed to be impartial (see People v Moreno, 70 NY2d 403, 406 [1987]). It is undisputed that the defendant consented to the course of the proceedings. In any event, the trial court did not usurp the prosecutor’s function. A trial judge is not an “automaton” (People v Yut Wai Tom, 53 NY2d 44, 56 [1981]). A trial judge possesses the discretion to become involved in witness examination to the extent necessary to clarify issues and proof, and to ensure the orderly and expeditious progress of the trial (see People v Fauntleroy, 258 AD2d 664, 665 [1999]; People v White, 210 AD2d 446 [1994]; People v Lee, 175 AD2d 141 [1991]). In this case, at the time of the trial the complaining witness was 11 years of age and she was understandably reticent in providing the traumatic details of her repeated sexual abuse at the hands of the defendant. While the trial court may have engaged in greater reassuring and cajoling conduct than would have been permissible with a typical adult witness, the level of the trial court’s involvement was fully warranted under the circumstances. Moreover, in light of the defendant’s detailed, emotional, apologetic, and clearly credible oral, written, and videotaped confessions, there is simply no basis for the dissent’s conclusion that judicial bias deprived the defendant of a fair trial. The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. S. Miller, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Lewis, J.), rendered June 6, 2001, convicting him of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree (two counts), upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the People failed to adduce legally sufficient proof that he was the person unlawfully in possession of a loaded revolver, is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Prahalad, 295 AD2d 373 [2002]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt (see People v Shewi Kuo, 289 AD2d 424 [2001]). Although the defendant contends that the verdict was against the weight of the evidence because the testimony of two police officers was implausible, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the jury, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). Santucci, J.P., Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ, concur.
— Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated November 6, 2000 (People v Ramdeo, 277 AD2d 258 [2000]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County, rendered April 10, 1997. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Altman, J.E, Goldstein, McGinity and Luciano, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (D’Emic, J.), rendered February 19, 2002, convicting him of murder in the second degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the trial court properly permitted the prosecution to introduce evidence of his prior acts of abuse and violence against the victim. The evidence was properly admitted as relevant background material to enable the jury to understand the defendant’s relationship with the victim, his girlfriend, and as evidence of the defendant’s intent, motive, and absence of mistake or accident in the commission of the crimes charged (see People v Howe, 292 AD2d 542 [2002]; People v Wright, 288 AD2d 409 [2001]; People v Howard, 285 AD2d 560 [2001]; People v Underwood, 255 AD2d 405 [1998]; People v Hawker, 215 AD2d 499 [1995]; People v George, 197 AD2d 588 [1993]; People v Shorey, 172 AD2d 634 [1991]). The trial court providently exercised its discretion in determining that the probative value of the evidence outweighed its potential for prejudice (see People v Ventimiglia, 52 NY2d 350, 359-360 [1981]). In any event, any potential prejudice to the defendant was mitigated by the trial court’s limiting instructions to the jury (see People v Carver, 183 AD2d 907 [1992]; People v Lunsford, 244 AD2d 507 [1997]). Santucci, J.P., Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from an order of the Supreme Court, Richmond County (Sangiorgio, J.), dated January 31, 2002, which, without a hearing, denied his motion pursuant to CPL 440.30 (1-a) to direct the performance of a forensic DNA test on certain evidence. Ordered that the order is affirmed. The Supreme Court properly denied the defendant’s motion pursuant to CPL 440.30 (1-a) for forensic DNA testing on certain evidence recovered from the victim. The defendant failed to show that if the specified evidence was tested and the test results admitted into evidence, “there exists a reasonable probability that the verdict would have been more favorable to [him]” (CPL 440.30 [1-a]; People v McCloud, 303 AD2d 604 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 584 [2003]; People v McDonald, 298 AD2d 466 [2002]; People v Perry, 295 AD2d 452 [2002]). Smith, J.P., Krausman, McGinity and Rivera, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Blumenfeld, J.), rendered May 14, 2001, convicting him of robbery in third degree, after a nonjury trial, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt of robbery in third degree beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). S. Miller, J.P., Friedmann, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Blumenfeld, J.), rendered May 21, 2002, convicting him of robbery in the first degree and criminal possession of stolen property in the fifth degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant did not preserve for appellate review his contention that the Supreme Court erred in failing to charge the jury with respect to the accomplice-corroboration requirement of CPL 60.22. He neither requested such a charge nor specifically objected to the failure of the Supreme Court to give it (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Nichilo, 274 AD2d 592 [2000]; People v Odiot, 242 AD2d 308 [1997]). In any event, under the circumstances, no accomplice-corroboration charge was warranted under CPL 60.22 (see People v Dygert, 229 AD2d 735 [1996]; People v Sacco, 199 AD2d 288 [1993]; People v Dagnone, 187 AD2d 604 [1992]; People v Brazeau, 162 AD2d 979 [1990]; People v Torres, 160 AD2d 746 [1990]). Florio, J.P., Friedmann, H. Miller and Mastro, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County (Calabrese, J.), rendered January 11, 2002, convicting him of robbery in the first degree, robbery in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, criminal possession of stolen property in the fourth degree, and resisting arrest, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant contends that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his guilt of robbery in the first and second degrees beyond a reasonable doubt because there was insufficient evidence that he used force to prevent or overcome resistance to the taking of property or to the retention thereof immediately after the taking, or that he was aided by another person actually present. The defendant has failed to preserve such contentions for appellate review, since he did not specify these grounds in his motion to dismiss at trial (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10 [1995]; People v Udzinski, 146 AD2d 245 [1989]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.P., McGinity, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
— Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated December 5, 1994 (People v Smith, 210 AD2d 267 [1994]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County, rendered February 5, 1992. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, P.J., Santucci, Florio and Smith, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Orange County (Berry, J.), rendered September 19, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the first degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). The defendant has not, nor could he have, raised any nonfrivolous issues in his supplemental pro se brief. Florio, J.P., Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Harms, J), rendered November 30, 1999, convicting him of assault in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his guilt is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Williams, 247 AD2d 416 [1998]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt (see People v Williams, 84 NY2d 925, 926 [1994]). The defendant contends that the jury should not have believed the prosecution’s witness. However, issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be afforded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86, 88 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). Prudenti, P.J., Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
— Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (McKay, J.), rendered November 20, 2001, convicting him of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree, after a nonjury trial, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his guilt is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10 [1995]; People v Udzinski, 146 AD2d 245 [1989]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). Ritter, J.P., Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Katz, J), rendered April 15, 2002, convicting him of assault in the second degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree (two counts), upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the trial court properly allowed testimony regarding previous confrontations between the defendant and the complainant. The evidence was introduced as background material needed to complete the narrative (see People v George, 292 AD2d 541 [2002]; People v Howard, 285 AD2d 560 [2001]). The defendant’s contention that the trial court erred in failing to deliver a limiting instruction regarding the defendant’s prior bad acts is unpreserved for appellate review as defense counsel did not request such an instruction or make an appropriate objection (see People v Jones, 182 AD2d 708, 709 [1992]). Ritter, J.E, Smith, Goldstein and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action for a judgment declaring that the plaintiff has no obligation to defend and indemnify the defendant Orange-Ulster Board of Cooperative Education Services in an underlying action entitled Doe v Orange-Ulster BOCES, pending in the Supreme Court, Orange County, under Index No. 8148/99, (1) the plaintiff appeals, as limited by its brief, from stated portions of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Orange County (Peter C. Patsalos, J.), entered July 24, 2002, which, inter alia, upon so much of an order of the same court dated April 10, 2002, as denied that branch of its motion which was for summary judgment on the complaint and as granted those branches of the defendants’ cross motion which were for summary judgment declaring that it is obligated to defend and indemnify them in the underlying action and for legal fees and expenses, declared that it is obligated to provide primary insurance coverage to the defendants in the underlying action and awarded legal fees and expenses to the defendants, (2) the third-party defendant National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., cross-appeals from so much of the same judgment as, upon so much of the order dated April 10, 2002, as denied that branch of its cross motion which was for summary judgment declaring that it is not obligated to defend or indemnify the defendants in the underlying action, declared that it is obligated to provide excess insurance coverage to the defendants in the underlying action, and (3) the third-party defendant, Coregis Insurance Company, cross-appeals from so much of the same judgment as declared that it is obligated to provide excess insurance coverage to the defendants in the underlying action. Ordered that the judgment is modified by (1) deleting the provision thereof declaring that the plaintiff is obligated to provide primary insurance coverage to the defendants in the underlying action and substituting therefor a provision declaring that the plaintiff is not obligated to defend or indemnify the defendants in the underlying action, (2) deleting the provision thereof awarding legal fees and expenses to the defendants and substituting therefor a provision declaring that the defendants are not entitled to legal fees and expenses; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed and cross-appealed from, with one bill of costs payable to the plaintiff, and the order dated April 10, 2002, is modified accordingly. The general liability policy issued by the plaintiff defines “occurrence” as an “accident, including continuous or repeated exposure to substantially the same general harmful conditions.” Thus, the acts alleged in the underlying action sounding in, inter alia, negligent hiring and supervision, are intentional acts and do not constitute an “occurrence” within the meaning of the policy (see RJC Realty Holding Corp. v Republic Franklin Ins. Co., 303 AD2d 573 [2003]; cf. Agoado Realty Corp. v United Intl. Ins. Co., 95 NY2d 141 [2000]). Further, the inclusion in the underlying complaint of causes of action sounding in negligent hiring and supervision does not alter the fact that the operative acts giving rise to any recovery are the alleged intentional sexual assaults (see Green Chimneys School for Little Folk v National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa., 244 AD2d 387 [1997]; United Community Ins. Co. v Greater N.Y. Mut. Ins. Co., 266 AD2d 453 [1999]; General Acc. Ins. Co. v 35 Jackson Ave. Corp., 258 AD2d 616 [1999]; Sweet Home Cent. School Dist. of Amherst v Aetna Commercial Ins. Co., 263 AD2d 949 [1999]; Board of Educ. of E. Syracuse-Minoa Cent. School Dist. v Continental Ins. Co., 198 AD2d 816 [1993]). Because there is no legal basis on which the plaintiff can be held liable for coverage, there is no obligation to provide a defense and the Supreme Court erred in declaring that the plaintiff is obligated to provide primary insurance coverage to the defendants in the underlying action (see RJC Realty Holding Corp., supra). Moreover, the plaintiff is not estopped from asserting that its policy at issue does not cover the underlying claim (see Schiff Assoc. v Flack, 51 NY2d 692 [1980]). Although the plaintiff initially provided a defense to the defendants in the underlying action, it reserved its rights to disclaim coverage and the defendants have failed to demonstrate prejudice (see General Acc. Ins. Co., supra). However, the errors and omissions policies issued by the third-party defendants, National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, PA (hereinafter National) and Coregis Insurance Company (hereinafter Coregis), are not standard general liability policies, but rather are intended to insure a member of a designated calling against liability arising out of the mistakes inherent in the practice of that particular profession or business (see Watkins Glen Cent. School Dist. v National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa., 286 AD2d 48 [2001]). The errors and omissions policies issued by National and Coregis provide coverage for negligent acts but not for intentional acts. While the underlying action is grounded in allegations of intentional sexual abuse for which National and Coregis owe no duty of defense or indemnification, to the extent that the defendants may be held liable in the underlying action for negligent hiring and supervision, this risk falls squarely within the errors and omissions policies issued by National and Coregis (see Watkins Glen Cent. School Dist., supra). Thus, the Supreme Court properly declared that National and Coregis are obligated to provide excess insurance coverage to the defendants (see Watkins Glen Cent. School Dist., supra). Moreover, the Supreme Court properly apportioned the costs to National and Coregis of defending and indemnifying the insured on a pro rata basis (see Great N. Ins. Co. v Mount Vernon Fire Ins. Co., 92 NY2d 682 [1999]). The parties’ remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of contract, the defendant Irwin Business Finance Corp. appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Knipel, J.), dated September 9, 2002, as denied those branches of its motion which were to dismiss the complaint insofar as asserted against it pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7) and for an award of an attorney’s fee. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, those branches of the motion of the defendant Irwin Business Finance Corp. which were to dismiss the complaint insofar as asserted against it pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7) and for an award of an attorney’s fee are granted, the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the defendant Irwin Business Finance Corp., the action against the remaining defendants is severed, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Kings County, for a hearing to determine the amount of an attorney’s fee to be awarded. The Supreme Court erred in denying that branch of the motion of the defendant Irwin Business Finance Corp. (hereinafter Irwin) which was to dismiss the complaint insofar as asserted against it pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (7). Under the express terms of the lease, which was an unambiguous and integrated contract, Irwin’s assignor was to lease certain equipment to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff, in turn, was to make 48 monthly payments to the assignor. Thus, contrary to the plaintiff’s contention, the parol evidence rule applies to preclude the admission of the extrinsic evidence proffered by the plaintiff (see Hutchison v Ross, 262 NY 381, 398 [1933]; I & I Holding Corp. v Gainsburg, 251 App Div 550, 551-552 [1937], affd 276 NY427; Prince, Richardson on Evidence § 11-203 at 747 [Farrell 11th ed]; see also Haggerty Lbr. & Mill Work v Thompson Starrett Constr. Co., 22 AD2d 509 [1965]). Therefore, the plaintiff cannot demonstrate an obligation on the part of Irwin to remit a portion of the finance proceeds generated by the lease to the plaintiff, and concomitantly, the plaintiff failed to state a cause of action against Irwin (see Columbo v Chase Manhattan Automotive Fin. Corp., 297 AD2d 327 [2002]). Under the express terms of the lease, Irwin, as a prevailing party, is entitled to a reasonable attorney’s fee and costs. Accordingly, the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Kings County, for a hearing to determine the amount of an attorney’s fee to be awarded to Irwin. Goldstein, J.P, Adams, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for wrongful death, the plaintiffs appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Bernstein, J.), dated March 27, 2002, which granted the motion of the defendant Joseph Zuccarello to set aside the verdict as a matter of law insofar as asserted against him and dismissed the complaint insofar as asserted against him. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. Pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a), the trial court “may set aside a verdict . . . and direct that judgment be entered in favor of a party entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” To do so, there must be “no valid line of reasoning and permissible inferences which could possibly lead rational men to the conclusion reached by the jury on the basis of the evidence presented at trial” (Cohen v Hallmark Cards, 45 NY2d 493, 499 [1978]). Contrary to the plaintiffs’ contention, the Supreme Court properly set aside the jury verdict as a matter of law since the plaintiffs failed to provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the accident was proximately caused by the absence of guarding devices around the crank arms of the trommel machine in question and that the defendant Joseph Zuccarello was in any way negligent. In light of the above, this Court need not reach the merits of Zuccarello’s remaining contention. Altman, J.P, Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendant New York City Transit Authority appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Hutcherson, J.), dated September 16, 2002, which denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it on the ground that the plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the appellant; and it is further, Ordered that upon searching the record, summary judgment is granted to the defendant John Doe, and the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against that defendant. The appellant made out a prima facie case that the plaintiffs injuries were not serious within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) through the affirmed medical report of an orthopedist who examined the plaintiff and concluded that she had not sustained any disability (see Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955 [1992]). The affirmation prepared by the plaintiffs treating physician which was submitted in opposition to the motion failed to raise a triable issue of fact. The plaintiffs physician failed to set forth the objective tests he performed in arriving at his conclusions concerning the alleged restrictions of motion in the plaintiffs arm and shoulder (see Grossman v Wright, 268 AD2d 79 [2000]). Furthermore, the physician failed to address the impact of the pre-existing arthritic condition in the plaintiffs shoulder on the alleged restrictions of motion (see Dimenshteyn v Caruso, 262 AD2d 348 [1999]). Florio, J.P., Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a consolidated action, inter alia, to recover damages for medical malpractice and wrongful death, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Weiss, J.), entered July 24, 2002, as denied those branches of her motion which were to compel the defendant I. Michael Leitman to produce a videotape and certain correspondence from the New York State Department of Health. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The plaintiff, Pamela Brandes, alleges that her husband, Robert Brandes, suffered, and eventually died on September 7, 1998, from complications that arose during a laparoscopic cholecystectomy to remove his gallbladder that was performed at the North Shore University Hospital on January 30, 1995. . The Supreme Court properly denied that branch of the plaintiffs motion which was to compel the defendant I. Michael Leitman to produce a videotape of a routine laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Although the Supreme Court did not explain its reasoning, there is a sound basis in the record for its determination that the videotape was not material and necessary within the meaning of CPLR 3101 (a) (see Allen v CrowellCollier Publ. Co., 21 NY2d 403 [1968]). Although the correspondence that Dr. Leitman allegedly received from the New York State Department of Health was not exempt from disclosure under Public Health Law § 2805-l, which applies to incident reports, it was protected by the confidentiality provision of Education Law § 6527 (3) (a), which applies to records relating to the performance of a medical or quality review function. S. Miller, J.P, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In a consolidated action, inter alia, to recover damages for medical malpractice and wrongful death, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Weiss, J.), entered October 9, 2002, as denied her motion to strike the answer of the defendant I. Michael Leitman for the failure to disclose a complete list of the medical malpractice cases in which he testified as a defendant or an expert witness and denied her cross motion to strike the defendants’ answers for their failure to disclose certain insurance information. Ordered that the order is modified by deleting the provision thereof denying that branch of the plaintiffs cross motion which was to strike the defendants’ answers for their failure to disclose certain insurance information and substituting therefor a provision granting that branch of the cross motion to the extent of directing the defendants to provide a sworn statement disclosing the number of claims made against the hospital insurance policy that was in effect during the period when the plaintiffs husband was under their care, the amount of each claim, and the total amounts paid out against the policy, within 20 days after service of this decision and order; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. The defendant I. Michael Leitman complied with the plaintiffs demand and a court ruling, both made during an examination before trial on August 6, 1998, to provide a list of the medical malpractice cases in which he testified as a defendant or an expert witness. The plaintiff was entitled, however, to obtain from the defendants a sworn statement disclosing the number of claims made against the hospital insurance policy that was in effect during the period of time when her husband was under their care, the amount of each claim, and the total amounts paid out against the policy (see Sullivan v Brooklyn-Caledonian Hosp., 213 AD2d 474 [1995]; Greenwald v Eiseman, 120 AD2d 564 [1986]; Kimbell v Davis, 81 AD2d 855 [1981]; Folgate v Brookhaven Mem. Hosp., 86 Misc 2d 191 [1976]). S. Miller, J.E, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In a consolidated action, inter alia, to recover damages for medical malpractice and wrongful death, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Weiss, J.), entered July 3, 2002, which denied her motion to compel the defendant North Shore University Hospital to disclose, among other things, its bylaws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures for nine separate departments and granted the cross motion of the defendant North Shore University Hospital for a protective order pursuant to CPLR 3103. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. A plaintiff’s motion to compel discovery should be denied where, as here, the document demands are overly broad, vexatious, and tend to confuse, rather than sharpen, the central issue of negligence (see Harrison v Bayley Seton Hosp., 219 AD2d 584 [1995]). Here, the plaintiffs vast categorical demands for the bylaws of the hospital and its medical staff, as well as the rules, regulations, policies, and procedures for nine separate departments, including surgery, anesthesiology, radiology, nursing, pathology, medical records, the surgical intensive care unit, the blood bank, and the post-anesthesia care unit, were overly broad and unduly burdensome. In addition, the Supreme Court properly denied the plaintiffs demand for the doctors’ initial applications and subsequent renewal applications for hospital privileges on the ground that those records are exempt from disclosure pursuant to Education Law § 6527 and Public Health Law article 28. Those statutes protect records relating to the hospital’s performance of a medical or quality assurance review function (see Logue v Velez, 92 NY2d 13 [1998]). The plaintiffs remaining contentions are without merit. S. Miller, J.R, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In a consolidated action, inter alia, to recover damages for medical malpractice and wrongful death, the defendant North Shore University Hospital appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Weiss, J.), dated June 16, 2003, as granted the plaintiffs motion to strike its answer to the extent of directing the hospital to produce a copy of the operating room log for January 30, 1995, redacted only as to the names, room numbers, and account numbers of the nonparty patients. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, with costs, and the motion is denied. The defendant North Shore University Hospital previously complied with the plaintiffs demand for a copy of the operating room log for January 30, 1995. The plaintiff was not entitled to obtain any additional information regarding the diagnoses, treatments, and medical and surgical procedures listed on the operating room log for the nonparty patients (see CPLR 4504; Holiday v Harrows, Inc., 91 AD2d 1062 [1983]; Matter of Ashford v Brunswick Psychiatric Ctr., 90 AD2d 848 [1982]; Moore v St. John’s Episcopal Hosp., 89 AD2d 618 [1982]; Boddy v Parker, 45 AD2d 1000 [1974]). Accordingly, the plaintiffs motion should have been denied. S. Miller, J.E, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Palmieri, J.), entered May 6, 2002, which, upon a jury verdict, dismissed the complaint. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, with one bill of costs payable by the respondents appearing separately and filing separate briefs, the complaint is reinstated, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Nassau County, for a new trial. The party seeking a missing witness charge bears the initial burden of promptly notifying the trial court that there is an uncalled witness believed to be knowledgeable about a material issue pending in the case, that such witness would naturally be expected to give noncumulative testimony favorable to the party against whom the charge is sought (the “control” element), and that the witness was available to that party who has failed to call him to testify (see People v Savinon, 100 NY2d 192, 197 [2003]; People v Gonzalez, 68 NY2d 424, 427 [1986]; People v O’Hara, 253 AD2d 560 [1998]; Germe v City of New York, 211 AD2d 480 [1995]). Once a party has met this burden, the opponent of the charge has the obligation to demonstrate that “the witness is not knowledgeable about the issue, that the issue is not material or relevant, that the testimony from the missing witness would be merely cumulative to other evidence, that the witness is not available or that the witness is not under the party’s control such that the witness would be expected to testify in the party’s favor” (People v Keen, 94 NY2d 533, 539 [2000] [emphasis added]; see People v Gonzalez, supra at 428). The Supreme Court erred in granting the respondents’ request for a missing witness charge with respect to the appellant’s ex-girlfriend. The defendants failed to carry their burden to qualify for such a charge. First, the request for such a charge was untimely since it was made after the close of all the evidence (see People v Carillo, 297 AD2d 288 [2002]; People v Tilghman, 233 AD2d 348 [1996]; People v Woodford, 200 AD2d 644 [1994]). Second, the defendants failed to establish that the missing witness was under the plaintiffs control and would have been expected to provide noncumulative testimony (see People v Keen, supra; People v Gonzalez, supra; cf. People v Savinon, supra at 197). Third, the defendants failed to show that the witness had noncumulative evidence to give on a material issue in dispute and to specify the issue (see Germe v City of New York, supra at 481; cf. People v Kitching, 78 NY2d 532, 537 [1991]). In any event, the plaintiff made an adequate showing that his ex-girlfriend was not available to him (see People v O’Hara, supra at 561; People v Jiminez, 176 AD2d 241, 242 [1991]; cf. People v Savinon, supra at 199). Since the court erred in granting the request for a missing witness charge, and since it cannot be said that the error was harmless, a new trial is warranted (see People v O’Hara, supra at 562; People v Jiminez, supra). Altman, J.E, Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs Lourdes Ciatto and Carmine Ciatto appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Cohalan, J.), entered June 7, 2002, as, upon a jury verdict finding the plaintiff Lourdes Ciatto 40% at fault in the happening of the accident and the defendant Paul Lieberman 60% at fault in the happening of the accident, and upon a separate jury verdict awarding the plaintiff Lourdes Ciatto $10,000 for past pain and suffering and $0 for future pain and suffering, and upon an order of the same court dated April 17, 2002, denying the motion of the plaintiff Lourdes Ciatto pursuant to CPLR 4404 to set aside the jury verdict on the issue of damages, awarded her damages in the principal sums of only $10,000 for past pain and suffering and $0 for future pain and suffering, and the defendant Bast Chevrolet cross-appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of the same judgment as, upon the granting of the separate motions of the plaintiffs and the defendants Paul Lieberman and Top Gun Collision, Inc., for judgment as a matter of law on the issue of whether Bast Chevrolet permitted its dealer license plates to be used by Paul Lieberman, and upon denying its motion for judgment as a matter of law on its cross claim for common-law indemnification against Paul Lieberman and Top Gun Collision, Inc., is in favor of the plaintiff Lourdes Ciatto and against it in the principal sum of $10,000. Ordered that the appeal by Carmine Ciatto is dismissed on the ground that he is not aggrieved by the judgment appealed from (see CPLR 5511); and it is further, Ordered that the judgment is modified by (1) deleting the provision thereof awarding damages to the plaintiff Lourdes Ciatto, and (2) adding thereto a provision awarding the defendant Bast Chevrolet judgment as a matter of law on its cross claim against the defendants Paul Lieberman and Top Gun Collision, Inc., for common-law indemnification; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed and cross-appealed from, the motion by the plaintiff Lourdes Ciatto is granted, and the order dated April 17, 2002, is modified accordingly; and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, for a new trial on the issue of damages in accordance herewith, with costs to abide the event. On July 2, 1993, the plaintiff Lourdes Ciatto (hereinafter the plaintiff) was driving through an intersection in Lindenhurst when her vehicle was struck by a vehicle driven by the defendant Paul Lieberman. Lieberman is the president of the defendant Top Gun Collision, Inc. (hereinafter Top Gun), and the vehicle he was driving at the time of the accident was owned by Top Gun. However, the vehicle bore dealer license plates which had been given to Lieberman by the defendant Bast Chevrolet (hereinafter Bast), a customer of Top Gun’s automotive repair shop. As a result of the collision, the plaintiff allegedly sustained a herniated disc, and was required to undergo surgery to remove the disc, and fuse her spinal vertebrae. At the close of the evidence in the liability phase of the trial, the plaintiff moved, and Lieberman and Top Gun separately moved, for judgment as a matter of law against Bast on the issue of whether Lieberman’s use of the dealer license plates had been permissive. The trial court granted the motion, finding that the evidence established permissive use as a matter of law, and that Bast therefore would be jointly liable for any judgment obtained by the plaintiff. The trial court also denied Bast’s motion for a directed verdict on its common-law indemnification claim against Lieberman and Top Gun, concluding that Bast had been negligent in the manner in which it allowed Lieberman to use its dealer plates. The jury thereafter found the plaintiff 40% at fault in the happening of the accident and Lieberman 60% at fault. During the ensuing damages trial, the parties presented sharply conflicting evidence as to whether the plaintiffs herniated disc had been caused by the accident, whether the fusion surgery performed several months after the accident had been necessary, and whether the surgery had been successful. Before submitting the case to the jury, the trial court determined, as a matter of law, that the plaintiff had sustained a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5Í02 (d) because it deemed her injuries to be permanent in nature. Thus, the jury was asked to determine whether the plaintiff’s injuries were caused by the accident. The jury found in the plaintiffs favor on the issue of causation, and awarded her $10,000 for past pain and suffering, but $0 for future pain and suffering. The plaintiffs motion pursuant to CPLR 4404 to set aside the damages verdict was denied. On its cross appeal, Bast contends that the trial court erred in granting judgment as a matter of law on the issue of whether Lieberman was a permissive user of its dealer plates. We disagree. The evidence presented during the liability phase of the trial established that Bast supplied Lieberman with dealer license plates because it had vehicles repaired at the Top Gun shop on a regular basis, and that Bast never gave Lieberman instructions limiting his use of the dealer plates to vehicles owned by Bast. Moreover, Bast’s general manager conceded at the trial that it was foreseeable that Lieberman might use dealer plates on a vehicle which was not owned by Bast in order to facilitate repairs to Bast vehicles. Under these circumstances, there is “no valid line of reasoning or permissible inferences” (Cohen v Hallmark Cards, 45 NY2d 493, 499 [1978]) which could support a jury finding that Lieberman did not have implied permission to place the dealer plates on the unregistered vehicle he was operating at the time of the accident. Since Bast negligently permitted Lieberman to use its dealer plates in violation of law, it is estopped from denying ownership of the vehicle, and is fully liable to the injured plaintiff (see Reese v Reamore, 292 NY 292, 297 [1944]; Taylor v Botnick Motor Corp., 146 AD2d 81 [1989]; Jamison v Walker, 48 AD2d 320 [1975]; see also Brown v Harper, 231 AD2d 483 [1996]). However, the trial court should have granted Bast’s motion for judgment as a matter of law on its indemnification claim against Lieberman and Top Gun. As a general rule, the common law permits the owner of a vehicle, who is statutorily liable for an accident under Vehicle and Traffic Law § 388, to be indemnified by a negligent user (see Morris v Snappy Car Rental, 189 AD2d 115, 121 [1993], affd 84 NY2d 21 [1994]; Denton Leasing Corp. v Breezy Point Surf Club, 133 AD2d 95 [1987]; Hertz Corp. v Dahill Moving & Stor. Co., 79 AD2d 589 [1980], affd 54 NY2d 619 [1981]). Although Bast negligently permitted its dealer plates to be improperly used by Lieberman, thus allowing the vehicle operated by Lieberman to be on the roadway, this negligence was not a proximate cause of the plaintiffs injuries {see Taylor v Botnick Motor Corp., supra). Accordingly, Bast was entitled to judgment as a matter of law on its indemnification claim against Lieberman and Top Gun. Furthermore, under the circumstances of this case, the trial court should have granted the plaintiffs motion to set aside the verdict on the issue of damages. The jury’s determination that the plaintiff was not entitled to any damages for future pain and suffering was inconsistent with its finding that her injuries, which were permanent in nature, were proximately caused by the accident (see Califano v Automotive Rentals, 293 AD2d 436 [2002]; Shaw v Jacobs, 279 AD2d 624 [2001]; Corsaro v Mt. Calvary Cemetery, 258 AD2d 969 [1999]). Moreover, in view of the fact that the jury was presented with conflicting evidence and theories as to the cause of the plaintiffs disc herniation, and that its award for past pain and suffering was inexplicably low, it appears possible that the damages verdict may have been the result of an impermissible compromise (see Roseingrave v Massapequa Gen. Hosp., 298 AD2d 377 [2002]; Califano v Automotive Rentals, supra; Rivera v City of New York, 253 AD2d 597 [1998]). Accordingly, we remit the matter for a new trial on the issue of damages, to include a redetermination of the issue of whether the plaintiffs injuries were pre-existing or caused by the accident. The plaintiff’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.E, Krausman, Schmidt and Townes, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of contract, the defendants appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Burke, J.), entered September 27, 2002, which denied their preanswer motion to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CFLR 3211 (a) (5) and (7). Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. Contrary to the defendants’ assertion, the holding in an underlying declaratory judgment action (see Campanelli v Flushing Ultrasound Servs., 287 AD2d 428 [2001]) did not collaterally estop the County of Nassau from seeking damages against the defendants for breach of contract for failure to provide a defense and indemnification or to procure liability insurance. The defendants failed to demonstrate that the issues were identical (see State of New York v County of Sullivan, 43 NY2d 815 [1977]; cf. Parker v Blauvelt Volunteer Fire Co., 93 NY2d 343, 349-350 [1999]). Further, the County properly set forth causes of action alleging breach of contract.. The fact that it is statutorily obligated to defend and indemnify the physician (see General Municipal Law § 50-d) does not bar it from seeking to enforce its contract with Flushing Ultrasound, Inc. (see generally Rogers v Dorchester Assoc., 32 NY2d 553, 562-563 [1973]; Kinney v Lisk Co., 76 NY2d 215 [1990]). We decline to address the defendants’ contention, raised for the first time on appeal (see Matter of ELRAC, Inc. v Edwards, 270 AD2d 414, 415 [2000]), that the causes of action asserted against the defendant Adele M. Romano, an alleged officer, manager, and shareholder of Flushing Ultrasound, Inc., should be dismissed because she cannot be held personally liable on a contract entered into on behalf of the corporation. Prudenti, EJ., Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for breach of contract and fraud, the defendants Culinary Connection, of Great Neck, Inc., Demetra Sirica, and Anthony Sirica appeal from so much of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Martin, J.), dated November 21, 2000, which, after a nonjury trial, was in favor of that plaintiff Culinary Connection Holdings, Inc., and against them in the principal sum of $349,632 including an award of $124,000 as an attorney’s fee on the cause of action alleging fraudulent conversion, the defendant Demetra Sirica appeals from so much of the same judgment as is in favor of that plaintiff and against her in the principal sum of $41,454 on the cause of action alleging conversion, and the defendant Culinary Connection of Great Neck, Inc., appeals from so much of the judgment as is in favor of that plaintiff and against it in the principal sum of $20,000 on the cause of action alleging breach of contract. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law and the facts, by deleting the provisions thereof awarding the plaintiff Culinary Connection Holdings, Inc., an attorney’s fee in the amount of $124,000 and damages in the amount of $41,454 on its cause of action alleging conversion and substituting therefor a provision awarding that plaintiff damages in the amount of $37,354 on its cause of action alleging conversion; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed, with costs to the plaintiff Culinary Connection Holdings, Inc. Disclaimer clauses and merger clauses in a contract for the sale of property are ineffective to bar the consideration of parol evidence of misrepresentation by the seller unless the clauses refer to the particular subject matter as to which the representations are alleged with sufficient specificity to put the buyer on notice as to the clauses’ intended effect (see Danann Realty Corp. v Harris, 5 NY2d 317, 320 [1959]). The merger and disclaimer clause at issue here did not refer to any representations related to the past sales of the business the plaintiff Culinary Connection Holdings, Inc., purchased from the defendants. Further, the disclaimer clause cannot be used to preclude the introduction of evidence of any oral misrepresentations as the “facts allegedly misrepresented are peculiarly within the seller’s knowledge” (Hi Tor Indus. Park v Chemical Bank, 114 AD2d 838, 839 [1985] [internal quotation marks omitted]). The trial court correctly allowed the plaintiffs to present parol evidence related to the representations of the defendants about the past sales of the business. However, the trial court erred in awarding the plaintiff Culinary Connection Holdings, Inc., $41,454 in damages on its cause of action alleging conversion of cash and property. The evidence presented at trial established that the defendants converted $4,534 in cash of which $1,000 had already been recovered and $33,820 in property. Therefore, the plaintiff Culinary Connection Holdings, Inc., was entitled to recover $37,354 in damages on its conversion cause of action. Further, it is a well-settled rule in New York that attorneys’ fees are considered an incident of litigation and, unless authorized by statute, court rule, or written agreement of the parties, are not recoverable (see Hooper Assoc. v AGS Computers, 74 NY2d 487 [1989]; Matter of A.G. Ship Maintenance Corp. v Lezak, 69 NY2d 1 [1986]; Campbell v Citibank, 302 AD2d 150 [2003]). In the absence of an explicit statutory or contractual authority therefor, a right to attorneys’ fees will not be inferred (see Campbell v Citibank, supra; Lawyers’ Fund for Client Protection v Morgan Guar. Trust Co. of N.Y., 259 AD2d 598 [1999]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court erred in awarding the plaintiff Culinary Connection Holdings, Inc., an attorney’s fee as there was not statutory or contractual authority for such an award (cf. Winkler v Allvend Indus., 186 AD2d 732 [1992]). The defendants’ remaining contentions are without merit. Altman, J.P., H. Miller, Adams and Townes, JJ., concur.
— In an action for a divorce and ancillary relief, the defendant appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Blydenburgh, J.), dated July 31, 2002, as directed her to pay counsel fees to the plaintiffs attorneys in the sum of $2,100. Ordered that the appeal is dismissed, without costs or disbursements. No appeal as of right lies from an order which does not decide a motion made on notice (see CPLR 5701 [a] [2]; Cellini v Derespiris, 302 AD2d 419 [2003]). Here, the portion of the order appealed from did not determine a motion made on notice, and we decline to grant leave to appeal. Ritter, J.P., Florio, S. Miller and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for false imprisonment, the plaintiff appeals from an order and judgment (one paper) of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Bruno, J.), dated November 4, 2002, which granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and dismissed the complaint. Ordered that the order and judgment is affirmed, with costs. “A valid, binding, and enforceable court order obtained and issued in accordance with the Mental Hygiene Law precludes the relitigation of the issues determined therein in a later action to recover damages” (Porter v Westchester County Med. Ctr., 252 AD2d 518, 519 [1998]; see Krajca v City of New York, 305 AD2d 375, 376 [2003]). Further, “[a] collateral attack upon a prior order is impermissible” (Matter of Joseph v Roldan, 289 AD2d 243, 244 [2001]; see Krajca v City of New York, supra). In the instant case, the plaintiff was afforded an opportunity to challenge the propriety of his involuntary commitment at a May 5, 1988, mental health hearing, following which the Supreme Court denied his application for release, finding him mentally ill and in need of retention. The plaintiff did not appeal from this order or seek to vacate it. Thus, he is collaterally estopped from relitigating the issue of his involuntary commitment. Accordingly, summary judgment dismissing the complaint was properly granted. The plaintiff’s remaining contentions are without merit. Prudenti, P.J., Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
— In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Glover, J.), dated November 27, 2002, which denied his motion to vacate an unsigned transcript of an oral decision of the same court dated February 28, 2001, dismissing the action. Ordered that the appeal is dismissed, with costs. No appeal lies from an order denying a motion to vacate an unsigned transcript of an oral decision (see CPLR 5512 [a]; Delgado v Clark, 307 AD2d 307 [2003]; Braithwaite v Braithwaite, 299 AD2d 383 [2002]; Chapin v Chapin, 295 AD2d 389, 390 [2002]; Matter of Colonial Penn Ins. Co. v Culley, 144 AD2d 363, 364 [1988]; Ojeda v Metropolitan Playhouse, 120 AD2d 717 [1986]; cf. CPLR 5701 [a] [3]; Dorizas v Island Insulation Corp., 254 AD2d 246 [1998]). Ritter, J.P., Smith, Friedmann, H. Miller and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action for a divorce and ancillary relief, the plaintiff appeals from stated portions of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Stack, J.), entered November 21, 2002, which, inter alia, upon a determination of the value of his master electrician’s license, awarded the defendant the sum of $2,500 per month in maintenance for a period of five years, and $1,500 per month for an additional five years and awarded the defendant $16,000 annually for a period of 10 years as equitable distribution of the marital assets. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, by deleting the second decretal paragraph thereof directing the plaintiff to pay the defendant the sum of $2,500 per month in maintenance for a period of five years and $1,500 per month for an additional five years and the fifth decretal paragraph. thereof awarding the defendant $16,000 annually for 10 years as equitable distribution; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Nassau County for further proceedings in accordance herewith. We agree with the plaintiff that the Supreme Court impermissibly engaged in the “double counting” of income in valuing his master electrician’s license, which was equitably distributed as marital property, and in awarding maintenance to the defendant (see Grunfeld v Grunfeld, 94 NY2d 696 [2000]; McSparron v McSparron, 87 NY2d 275 [1995]). Here, the valuation of the plaintiff’s license involved calculating his projected future enhanced earnings. In valuing and distributing the value of the plaintiff s license, the court converted a certain amount of the plaintiff’s projected future income stream into an asset. However, the court also calculated the amount of maintenance to which the defendant was entitled based on the plaintiff’s total income, which must have included the excess earnings produced by his work. This was improper. “Once a court converts a specific stream of income into an asset, that income may no longer be calculated into the maintenance formula and payout” (Grunfeld v Grunfeld, supra at 705; see McSparron v McSparron, supra). Because the Supreme Court has discretion in the manner in which it is to avoid such double counting of income (see Grunfeld v Grunfeld, supra at 705-706), we remit the matter to the Supreme Court, Nassau County, to recalculate the maintenance and equitable distribution awards. The plaintiff’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.E, McGinity, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for breach of contract and fraud, the defendants Jenny Fang and Robert Chow appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Satterfield, J.), dated January 28, 2003, as denied their motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint as asserted against them. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The Supreme Court properly found that the appellants failed to make a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law by eliminating all material issues of fact from the case (see Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851, 853 [1985]). It is well settled that agents or officers of a corporation may be held personally liable for their tortious acts committed in the performance of their corporate duties (see Kopec v Hempstead Gardens, 264 AD2d 714, 716 [1999]; American Express Travel Related Servs. Co. v North Atl. Resources, 261 AD2d 310, 311 [1999]; Marine Midland Bank v Russo Produce Co., 50 NY2d 31, 44 [1980]). The appellants, the sole shareholders and officers of the corporate defendants, negotiated the underlying transaction with the plaintiff. To the extent, if any, that there were misrepresentations made by the corporate defendants in connection with the transactions, the appellants “must have personally participated in such misrepresentations” (I. Towjer, Inc. v Tarran, 236 AD2d 518, 519 [1997]; see First Bank of Ams. v Motor Car Funding, 257 AD2d 287, 291-292 [1999]). Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, for specific performance of a real estate contract, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Tanenbaum, J.), dated May 10, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and, in effect, denied its cross motion to compel discovery as academic. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is denied, the complaint is reinstated, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, for a determination of the cross motion on the merits. On March 10, 1998, the defendant entered into a written contract with the plaintiff in which he agreed to sell a parcel of property located in the Town of Southampton to the plaintiff for $250,000. The contract provided that the sale was contingent upon the defendant obtaining approval, within 60 days from the date of the contract plus an additional 60 days, from the Planning Board of the Town of Southampton (hereinafter the Board) to remove covenants and restrictions dated March 4, 1987, requiring that the property be used for grape production and establishing a per acre formula limiting wine production. In April 1998 the defendant applied to the Board to remove the covenants and restrictions. The Board placed the matter on its agenda for its February 4, 1999, meeting, but sometime before February 2, 1999, the defendant withdrew the application from the Board’s calendar. After correspondence and telephone calls between the attorneys for the parties, the defendant reinstated the matter to the Board’s agenda for a date later that year. According to the minutes of the Board meeting on November 4, 1999, the Chairperson stated that the Board was willing to release the property and amend the covenant but first required some additional information from the defendant regarding the square footage of the winery building. The defendant does not dispute that he never provided this information. On April 10, 2000, five months after the Board meeting but more than two years after the date of the contract, the defendant was still corresponding with the Board in an apparent attempt to finalize its approval. However, in August 1999 and again in September 2000 the plaintiff wrote to the defendant, indicating that it waived the contingency relating to the release and that it wanted to close. On December 21, 2000, the plaintiff commenced this action seeking, inter alia, specific performance. The defendant moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, and the Supreme Court granted the motion. The Supreme Court found that the contingency relating to the release of the covenants and restrictions and the time frame for obtaining the removal had been placed in the contract for the benefit of both parties, that there was no proof to indicate that the defendant had agreed to waive or modify this condition, and moreover, that modification of the agreement had to be in writing. As to the need for a written modification, even if a contract expressly provides for modifications to be in writing, an oral modification will be enforced where it has been fully performed (see T&N W. Galla Pizzeria v CF White Plains Assoc., 185 AD2d 270 [1992]; Marine Midland Bank v Midstate Lbr. Co., 79 AD2d 783 [1980]). The record demonstrates that both parties, by actively continuing to seek the removal at issue well after the 120-day period, effectuated a modification of the contract as to this time constraint (see Ehrenpreis v Klein, 260 AD2d 532 [1999]; Kaufman v Haverstraw Rd. Lands, 158 AD2d 675 [1990]). Moreover, under the circumstances of this case, the Supreme Court improperly granted the defendant’s motion for summary judgment. Santucci, J.P., Friedmann, Mastro and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of contract, the plaintiff appeals (1) from an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (O’Connell, J.), dated August 12, 2002, which denied its motion to reject the determination of a referee ending discovery and confirmed the determination, (2) from so much of an order of the same court dated October 18, 2002, as granted the motion of the defendants Riteway AV Corp., doing business as Ultratek Computer and Communications, and Michael Takacs, and the separate motions of the defendant Kinga Agoston and the defendant Matt Guttler for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them and awarding the defendants attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements, and (3) from an order of the same court dated January 9, 2003, which denied its motion, denominated as one for leave to renew and/or reargue, but which was, in actuality, one for leave to reargue. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated January 9, 2003, is dismissed, as no appeal lies from an order denying leave to reargue; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated August 12, 2002, is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated October 18, 2002, is modified, on the law, by deleting the provision thereof awarding the respective defendants attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the defendants appearing separately and filing separate briefs. Contrary to the plaintiff’s contention, the Supreme Court properly found that two of the causes of action were preempted by the Federal Copyright Act (see 17 USC §§ 101, 102, 301; see also 28 USC § 1338 [a]; Harms Co. v Eliscu, 339 F2d 823 [1964], cert denied 381 US 915 [1965]). Moreover, the Supreme Court properly determined that no issue of fact sufficient to defeat summary judgment was presented by the plaintiff in opposition to the defendants’ respective showings of entitlement to judgment as a matter law (see Gus v Town of N. Hempstead, 174 AD2d 649 [1991]). We do, however, agree with the plaintiffs contention that the Supreme Court erred in awarding the defendants attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements pursuant to 22 NYCRR 130-1.1. There was no showing that the plaintiff was given notice that any of the defendants were seeking attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements pursuant to this regulation, nor does it appear that the plaintiff was given an opportunity to be heard on this issue prior to the Supreme Court’s awarding of those items. This was a clear violation of 22 NYCRR 130-1.1 (d). Thus, we modify the Supreme Court’s order dated October 18, 2002, by deleting the provision thereof awarding such fees, costs, arid disbursements. The Supreme Court has broad discretion to supervise disclosure in this action, and it providently exercised that discretion in confirming the referee’s determination terminating discovery (see Eber Bros. Wine & Liq. Corp. v Ribowsky, 266 AD2d 499 [1999]; Kamhi v Dependable Delivery Serv., 234 AD2d 34 [1996]). With respect to the order dated January 9, 2003, the Supreme Court properly determined that the plaintiffs supposedly new evidence was previously available, and that the plaintiff gave no reasonable excuse as to why this evidence was not previously submitted in opposition to the original motions (see CPLR 2221 [e] [3]; Holmes v Hanson, 286 AD2d 750 [2001]; Cong. Bais Rabbenu v 26 Adar N.B. Corp., 282 AD2d 642 [2001]). Therefore, the plaintiffs motion was, in effect, one for leave to reargue, the denial of which is not appealable (see Holmes v Hanson, supra). The plaintiff’s remaining contentions are without merit. Florio, J.E, Friedmann, H. Miller and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a consolidated action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendants Michael Maskaron and Geraldine Maskaron appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (RE. Rivera, J.), dated February 22, 2002, as denied their motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against them. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against the appellants are dismissed, and the action against the remaining defendants is severed. To hold an abutting landowner liable to a pedestrian injured by a defect in a public sidewalk, the landowner must have either created the defect, caused it to occur by a special use, or breached a specific ordinance or statute which obligates the owner to maintain the sidewalk (see Diaz v Vieni, 303 AD2d 713 [2003]; Perriconi v St. John’s Preparatory High School, 290 AD2d 546 [2002]; see also Kaufman v Silver, 90 NY2d 204 [1997]). Here, the appellants established their prima facie entitlement to summary judgment by demonstrating that they did not create the defective condition or cause it to occur through the special use of the public sidewalk as a driveway, and no statute or ordinance conferred liability upon them at the time of the incident in question (see Ivanyushkina v City of New York, 300 AD2d 544 [2002]; Benenati v City of New York, 282 AD2d 418, 419 [2001]; Kaszovitz v Weiszman, 110 AD2d 117, 120 [1985]). In opposition, the plaintiff failed to demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact regarding, inter alia, the defendants’ alleged special use of the sidewalk. Accordingly, the appellants’ motion should have been granted and the complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against them dismissed. Prudenti, P.J., Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
— In an action for divorce and ancillary relief, the defendant appeals, as limited by his brief, from stated portions of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Scancarelli, J.), dated September 9, 2002, which, inter alia, upon the parties’ stipulation of settlement, awarded the plaintiff maintenance in the sum of $100 per week for a period of 15 years, and child support in the sum of $164 per week. Ordered that the appeal is dismissed, with costs. The judgment of divorce incorporated but did not merge with the parties’ stipulation of settlement. On appeal, the defendant asserts, among other things, that there was an error in computing his child support obligation, and that portions of the stipulation resulted from fraud. A party may not appeal from a judgment entered upon a stipulation (see Baecher v Baecher, 95 AD2d 841 [1983]). The defendant’s proper remedy concerning the propriety of the parties’ settlement is a motion in the Supreme Court to set aside the stipulation (see Hopkins v Hopkins, 97 AD2d 457 [1983]). Santucci, J.E, Luciano, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for medical malpractice, etc., the defendant Vincent Gulfo appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Steinhardt, J.), dated January 21, 2003, which granted the plaintiffs’ motion for leave to reargue his prior motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against him, which had been granted in a prior order of the same court (R. Goldberg, J.), dated September 23, 2002, and upon reargument, vacated the original determination and denied his motion for summary judgment. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. Contrary to the appellant’s contention, the Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in granting the plaintiffs’ motion for leave to reargue (see generally CPLR 2221 [d]; Loland v City of New York, 212 AD2d 674 [1995]). Upon reargument, the Supreme Court properly denied the appellant’s motion for summary judgment because issues of fact exist, inter alia, with respect to whether he was negligent in failing to be present while a nerve conduction study was performed on the injured plaintiff on October 10, 1996, and in failing to ensure that studies of the ulnar nerve above and below the elbow were performed that day, and whether such negligence, if any, was a proximate cause of the injuries (see generally Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557 [1980]; Barbuto v Winthrop Univ. Hosp., 305 AD2d 623, 624 [2003]; Halkias v Otolaryngology-Facial Plastic Surgery Assoc., 282 AD2d 650, 651 [2001]). Indeed, the appellant never adequately addressed the results of an August 1996 nerve conduction test performed by another physician in attempting to make out a prima facie case of his entitlement to judgment as a matter of law. The appellant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Prudenti, P.J., Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
— In an action to recover damages for legal malpractice, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Jones, J.), dated July 16, 2002, which denied her motion to restore the case to the trial calendar. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. A party moving to restore an action to the trial calendar more than one year after it was stricken from the calendar, after it has been dismissed pursuant to CPLR 3404, must establish (1) a meritorious cause of action, (2) a reasonable excuse for the delay in prosecution of the action, (3) a lack of intent to abandon the action, and (4) a lack of prejudice to the defendant (see Basetti v Nour, 287 AD2d 126 [2001]; Fernandez v Staten Is. Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery Assoc., 289 AD2d 372 [2001]). The plaintiff failed to make the requisite showing. Accordingly, the Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in denying the motion. Santucci, J.P., Goldstein, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
— In an action, inter alia, to recover damages- for the alleged loss of property from a safe deposit box, the defendant Chase Manhattan Bank, now known as JP Morgan Chase appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Bunyan, J.), dated September 20, 2002, which denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the complaint insofar as asserted against the appellant is dismissed, and the action against the remaining defendant is severed. The action insofar as asserted against the appellant is barred by an executed written release (see Martino v Kaschak, 208 AD2d 698 [1994]; Sofio v Hughes, 162 AD2d 518 [1990]). Even if the release was not enforceable, the appellant would be entitled to summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it (see Greco v First Union Natl. Bank Corp., 267 AD2d 278 [1999]). In light of the foregoing, it is unnecessary to address the appellant’s remaining contention. Prudenti, P.J., Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
— In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendant appeals from (1) a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Oliver, J.), entered March 20, 2002, which upon, inter alia, a jury verdict finding it 60% at fault in the happening of the accident and awarding the plaintiff damages in the sum of $50,000 for past pain and suffering and $200,000 for future pain and suffering, is in favor of the plaintiff and against it, and (2) an order of the same court dated April 11, 2002, which denied its motion pursuant to CPLR 4404 (a) to set aside the jury verdict. Ordered that the judgment and the order are affirmed, with one bill of costs. It is well settled that for a court to conclude that a jury verdict is unsupported “by sufficient evidence as a matter of law, there must be ‘no valid line of reasoning and permissible inferences which could possibly lead rational [people] to the conclusion reached by the jury on the basis of the evidence presented at trial’ ” (Nicastro v Park, 113 AD2d 129, 132 [1985], quoting Cohen v Hallmark Cards, 45 NY2d 493, 499 [1978]). Moreover, a jury verdict will not be set aside as against the weight of the evidence unless it could not have been reached on any fair interpretation of the evidence (see Nicastro v Park, supra at 134). In this case, there was no basis to overturn the verdict (see Nicastro v Park, supra). The defendant’s remaining contentions either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Florio, J.P., S. Miller, Friedmann and Luciano, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the defendant appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Schmidt, J), dated February 3, 2003, which, in effect, denied his motion pursuant to CPLR 3216 to dismiss the complaint for failure to file a note of issue. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Kings County, for a hearing on the issue of whether proper service was effectuated, and for a de novo determination of the motion. The defendant moved to dismiss the complaint on the ground that the plaintiff failed to file a note of issue in response to a 90-day demand pursuant to CPLR 3216 (b) (3). However, it is well settled that the 90-day period runs from the date of actual receipt of the demand by the plaintiff or by some person authorized to receive such demand by the plaintiff (see 176-60 Union Turnpike v Klinger, 284 AD2d 380 [2001]; Ponce v Ricupero, 282 AD2d 589 [2001]; Indemnity Ins. Co. v Lamendola, 261 AD2d 580, 582 [1999]). Here, the plaintiffs opposition papers were sufficient to raise an issue of fact as to whether the defendant’s 90-day demand was received by the plaintiff or anyone acting on his behalf. Florio, J.P, Krausman, Luciano, Townes and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of contract and fraud, the plaintiffs appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Rockland County (Sherwood, J.), entered March 21, 2002, as, upon granting that branch of their motion which was for a preliminary injunction, directed the conveyance of title to two parcels of real property to a certain partnership pursuant to a form of deed that contained a provision that the conveyances were “subject to and assuming” two certain mortgages. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with one bill of costs payable to the respondents appearing separately and filing separate briefs. The plaintiffs, partners with the defendant Andrew Naclerio, filed notices of pendency against two parcels of real property, one held in the name of Naclerio and the other held in the name of his wife, also a defendant, thereby preventing further transfers of title or additional encumbrances being voluntarily-placed on the parcels. This represented an election of provisional remedies and the plaintiffs furnished no reason why the court, in the exercise of its discretion, should have relieved them of this election (see CPLR 6001; Metropolitan Funeral Directors Assn. v City of New York, 182 Misc 2d 977, 989-990 [1999]; Sansol Indus, v 345 E. 56th St. Owners, 159 Misc 2d 822, 827 [1993]). Thus, the plaintiffs received more relief than they were entitled to from the Supreme Court when their motion for a preliminary injunction was granted. The Supreme Court directed conveyances of title to the real property into the name of the partnership pursuant to a form of deed that contained a provision that the conveyances were “subject to and assuming” two certain mortgages. To delete the provision subjecting these transfers to the existing mortgages as the plaintiffs seek on this appeal would be inequitable. In these peculiar circumstances, we will not interfere with this aspect of the Supreme Court’s exercise of discretion (see Moody v Filipowski, 146 AD2d 675, 678 [1989]). Smith, J.P., S. Miller, Crane and Cozier, JJ., concur.
— In an action, inter alia, for a judgment declaring that the defendants are obligated to indemnify the plaintiff in an action entitled Rita Cohen Realty Services, Ltd., doing business as Prudential-RCR Realtors v CB Richard Ellis, Inc., pending in the Supreme Court, Westchester County, under Index No. 1061/00, the defendants appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Rudolph, J.), entered March 27, 2002, which granted the plaintiffs motion to dismiss their first, second, third, fourth, and fifth counterclaims, and their demand for punitive damages. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, by deleting the provisions thereof granting those branches of the motion which were to dismiss the third and fourth counterclaims and substituting therefor a provision denying those branches of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed, with costs to the appellants, and the third and fourth counterclaims are reinstated. The Supreme Court correctly dismissed the defendants’ first and second counterclaims, alleging tortious interference with contract and tortious interference with prospective economic advantage, respectively, pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (5). Those causes of action are barred by the applicable statute of limitations (see CPLR 214 [4]; Spinap Corp. v Cafagno, 302 AD2d 588 [2003]). Contrary to the defendants’ contention, CPLR 214-c (4), which applies to personal injury or property damage actions involving exposure to toxic substances, does not apply to this case (see generally Burger v Union Carbide Corp., 304 AD2d 700, 701 [2003], lv denied in part and dismissed in part 100 NY2d 601 [2003]; Pompa v Burroughs Wellcome Co., 259 AD2d 18 [1999]; Rothstein v Tennessee Gas Pipeline Co., 204 AD2d 39, 40 [1994], affd 87 NY2d 90 [1995]). The Supreme Court also properly dismissed the defendants’ punitive damages demand (see Rocanova v Equitable Life Assur. Socy. of U.S., 83 NY2d 603, 616-617 [1994]). However, under the circumstances of this case, the Supreme Court erred in dismissing the third and fourth counterclaims, sounding in fraudulent inducement and fraud, respectively, pursuant to, inter alia, CPLR 3016 (see Kaufman v Cohen, 307 AD2d 113 [2003]). We reject the plaintiffs additional contention that the defendants’ fraud allegations are contradicted by documentary evidence, including alleged admissions by the defendants in pleadings and depositions submitted in a related litigation (cf. Montefiore v Soja, 292 AD2d 241, 242 [2002]). We also reject the plaintiffs argument that the Supreme Court’s dismissal of the third and fourth counterclaims may be sustained based on the doctrine of judicial estoppel (see Bono v Cucinella, 298 AD2d 483, 484 [2002]). The defendants’ remaining contentions are without merit. Florio, J.P, Friedmann, H. Miller and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendants Joann Motts, individually and as mother and natural guardian of William Ratel, and William Ratel appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Tanenbaum, J.), dated December 19, 2002, which denied their motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the appellants, and the action against the remaining defendants is severed. The infant plaintiff Jacqueline Lumley (hereinafter Lumley) sustained a fractured ankle while playing a game of “kick the can” with other children, including the infant defendant William Ratel (hereinafter Ratel), in the backyard of Ratel’s residence. Ratel slid while attempting to reach the can and collided with Lumley. The plaintiffs commenced this action against, among others, Ratel and his mother Joann Motts (hereinafter the appellants), alleging, inter alia, a negligence cause of action against Ratel and a cause of action based on negligent supervision against Motts. The appellants established their prima facie entitlement to summary judgment on the ground that the doctrine of assumption of the risk barred the plaintiffs’ negligence claim against Ratel (see Morgan v State of New York, 90 NY2d 471 [1997]; Bierach v Nichols, 248 AD2d 916 [1998]; Kelly v Great Neck Union Free School Dist., 192 AD2d 696 [1993]). In opposition, the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to their contentions that Ratel’s conduct was reckless or intentional or that his conduct created a dangerous condition over and above the usual dangers inherent in the game (see Morgan v State, supra; Schneider v Levittown Union Free School Dist., 303 AD2d 394 [2003]; Cook v Komorowski, 300 AD2d 1040 [2002]; Vega v County of Westchester, 282 AD2d 738 [2001]; cf. Convey v Rye School Dist., 271 AD2d 154 [2000]). Accordingly, the negligence cause of action against the defendants should have been dismissed. The plaintiffs’ arguments regarding their cause of action based on. negligent supervision are unpreserved for appellate review, as these arguments were not raised in the Supreme Court (see Singh v Eisen, 260 AD2d 363 [1999]). In any event, after the appellants made out a prima facie case for summary judgment, the plaintiffs failed to demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact with respect to their negligent supervision cause of action. Accordingly, the appellants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint should have been granted, S. Miller, J.E, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendant Sea-Cargoes, Inc., the defendant Nicholas Govas, and the defendants Susan B. Borkow and Myles M. Behrens separately appeal, as limited by their briefs, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Flug, J.), dated April 12, 2001, as denied their motions for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against them, the defendant 98-100 Realty, LLC, separately appeals from so much of the same order as denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the negligence cause of action insofar as asserted against it, the third-party defendant Rector Street Parking, Inc., separately appeals from so much of the same order as denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the third-party complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against it, and the third-party defendant and third third-party defendant City of New York separately appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of the same order as denied its motion for summary judgment dismissing the third-party complaint, third third-party complaint, and all cross claims insofar as asserted against it. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, the motions are granted, the complaint and all cross claims are dismissed insofar as asserted against the defendants Sea-Cargoes, Inc., Nicholas Govas, Susan B. Borkow, and Myles M. Behrens, the negligence cause of action is dismissed insofar as asserted against the defendant 98-100 Realty, LLC, the third-party complaint and all cross claims are dismissed insofar as asserted against the third-party defendants Rector Street Parking, Inc., and the City of New York, and the third third-party complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the City of New York; and it is further, Ordered that upon searching the record, the cause of action pursuant to General Municipal Law § 205-a and Administrative Code of the City of New York §§ 27-127 and 27-128 -is dismissed insofar as asserted against the defendant 98-100 Realty, LLC, the third third-party complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the defendant Rector Street Parking, Inc., the fourth third-party complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against the City of New York, and the action against the remaining defendants is severed; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the appellants appearing separately and filing separate briefs. On January 11, 1998, the plaintiff Brian Lustenring, in the course of his duties as a firefighter employed by the New York City Fire Department, responded to a fire at 98-100 Greenwich Street in Manhattan, a building owned by the defendant 98-100 Realty, LLC (hereinafter 98-100 Realty). He was injured when a cinderblock wall that he was climbing in an effort to reach a fire escape in the alleyway behind the building crumbled beneath him, causing him to fall. Lustenring and his wife commenced this action against 98-100 Realty and the other defendants, who owned buildings adjacent to the alleyway, based upon commomlaw negligence in failing to maintain the cinderblock wall in a safe condition and a violation of General Municipal Law § 205-a. The defendants Sea-Cargoes, Inc. (hereinafter Sea-Cargoes), Nicholas Govas, and Susan B. Borkow and Myles M. Behrens, and the third-party defendant the City of New York met their burdens of proving entitlement to judgment as a matter of law. They submitted evidence that they did not own the subject wall, and therefore, could not be held liable for any purported dangerous condition upon it that caused Lustenring’s injuries. The plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact with regard to the ownership of or a duty to maintain the wall in question. Therefore, the claims asserted against them must be dismissed (see Turcotte v Fell, 68 NY2d 432 [1986]; Cabales v Little League of Islips, 292 AD2d 329 [2002]. The claim pursuant to General Municipal Law § 205-a must be dismissed insofar as asserted against Sea-Cargoes, Go vas, Barkow and Behrens, and the City as well. That statute creates a cause of action for firefighters where injury results from the negligent failure to comply with local ordinances, and is predicated in this case upon purported violations of various provisions of the Administrative Code of the City of New York § 27-127 (general requirement to maintain buildings and their parts in a safe condition) and section 27-128 (owner responsibility for safe maintenance of a building and its facilities). Since Sea-Cargoes, Go vas, Barkow and Behrens, and the City met their burdens of proving that they did not own the wall in question and owed no duty to maintain it in a safe condition, the provisions of the Administrative Code relied upon by the plaintiffs do not apply to them. The record is also devoid of any admissible evidence that the City failed to properly train and equip Lustenring. Moreover, the derivative claim of Lustenring’s wife must be dismissed to the extent it is predicated on those claims. The defendant 98-100 Realty met its burden of establishing entitlement to judgment as a matter of law with regard to the plaintiffs’ negligence cause of action. Although the plaintiffs submitted evidence sufficient to raise an issue of fact as to whether 98-100 Realty owned and was responsible for maintaining the subject wall, the plaintiff did not raise a triable issue of fact whether 98-100 Realty created or had actual or constructive notice of the purported dangerous condition of the wall (see Patrick v Bally’s Total Fitness, 292 AD2d 433 [2002]). The only evidence presented by the plaintiffs was a photograph of the site of the incident. A photograph may be used to prove constructive notice of an alleged defect shown in the photograph if it was taken reasonably close to the time of the accident and there is testimony that the condition at the time of the accident was substantially as shown in the photographs (see DeGiacomo v Westchester County Healthcare Corp., 295 AD2d 395 [2002]; Truesdell v Rite Aid of N.Y., 228 AD2d 922 [1996]). However, the plaintiffs never made this showing. Although Lustenring testified at an examination before trial that the photograph depicted the site of his accident, he did not testify that the condition of the wall as shown in the photograph was substantially the same as its condition on the date of his accident. In fact, he testified that it was “hard for [him] to say” whether there were any differences in the photograph and the way the wall looked at the time of the accident because he “wasn’t concerned with the wall at the time” and “wasn’t even looking at it”. Therefore, the photograph was not competent evidence (see Saks v Yeshiva of Spring Val., 257 AD2d 615 [1999]). No other evidence was presented on the issue of constructive notice. Accordingly, the record does not contain evidentiary proof in admissible form to demonstrate a question of fact on the issue of constructive notice (see Saks v Yeshiva of Spring Val., supra; Truesdell v Rite Aid of N.Y., supra). While, in an action pursuant to General Municipal Law § 205-a, it is not necessary for the plaintiff to prove such notice as would be required under a common-law theory of negligence, the statute still requires that the circumstances surrounding the violation indicate that it was a result of “neglect, omission, willful or culpable negligence on the defendant’s part” (McCullagh v McJunkin, 240 AD2d 713 [1997] [internal quotation marks omitted]; Lusenskas v Axelrod, 183 AD2d 244 [1992]). Since there is no evidence that 98-100 Realty either created or knew of the condition which allegedly constituted the violation, “the requisite culpability for the applicable violation is lacking” (McCullagh v McJunkin, supra at 713-714, quoting Lusenskas v Axelrod, supra at 249), and the plaintiffs did not meet their burden for the recovery of damages against it pursuant to General Municipal Law § 205-a or Administrative Code of the City of New York §§ 27-127 and 27-128. The defendant Rector Street Parking, Inc. (hereinafter Rector Street), likewise established its entitlement to judgment as a matter of law by demonstrating that it neither created or had actual nor constructive notice of the alleged defect. In opposition, the plaintiffs failed to come forward with evidence sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether Rector Street violated any statutory or code provisions or whether any alleged violations, was the result of some neglect, omission, or culpable negligence on its part (see Williams v City of New York, 256 AD2d 332 [1998]). The derivative claim therefore also must be dismissed against the defendants 98-100 Realty and Rector Street. Ritter, J.P, Smith, S. Miller and Adams, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendant C.D.R. Electronics Security & Surveillance Systems Company appeals from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Orange County (McGuirk, J.), dated June 19, 2002, as denied its cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it, and the defendant B&R Telecommunications Systems, Inc., separately appeals from (1) so much of the same order as denied its separate cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against it, and (2) an order of the same court dated November 19, 2002, which denied its motion, denominated as one for leave to renew and reargue, but which was, in actuality, one for leave to reargue its prior cross motion for summary judgment. Ordered that the appeal from the order dated November 19, 2002, is dismissed, as no appeal lies from an order denying reargument; and it is further, Ordered that the order dated June 19, 2002, is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, the separate cross motions of the defendants B&R Telecommunications Systems, Inc., and C.D.R. Electronics Security & Surveillance Systems Company for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them are granted and the complaint is dismissed insofar as asserted against those defendants; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the defendants C.D.R. Electronics Security & Surveillance Systems Company and B&R Telecommunications Systems, Inc. The injured plaintiff, a nurse employed at the St. Luke’s Hospital outpatient dialysis center (hereinafter St. Luke’s), tripped and fell when her foot got caught on a wire or wires as she stood up and began to walk from the nurses’ work station desk. Thereafter, the plaintiffs commenced the instant action against, among others, C.D.R. Electronics Security & Surveillance Systems Company (hereinafter CDR) and B&R Telecommunications Systems, Inc. (hereinafter B&R), alleging that both companies failed to properly install and maintain the wiring located under the nurses’ work station desk. CDR and St. Luke’s were parties to a service and maintenance agreement with respect to a fire alarm system which was integrated with the call system located at the nurses’ work station area. CDR and B&R separately cross-moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against them. The evidence presented established, inter alia, that the injured plaintiff could not identify the wire or wires that she allegedly tripped upon, and that CDR and B&R neither installed nor maintained those wires. Further, the evidence established, inter alia, that St. Luke’s, through its engineering department, was responsible for maintaining the wires under the nurses’ work station. The Supreme Court denied both cross motions, finding that there were issues of fact as to whether both defendants negligently installed the wiring, and whether CDR, should have, in the exercise of reasonable care, discovered any dangerous condition, pursuant to its service and maintenance agreement. To establish a prima facie case of negligence, a plaintiff must establish the existence of a duty, a breach of that duty, and that the breach of such duty was the proximate cause of his or her injuries (see Gordon v Muchnick, 180 AD2d 715 [1992]). However, absent a duty of care, there is no breach and no liability (id. at 715). CDR and B&R established their prima facie entitlement to summary judgment by demonstrating that they neither installed nor maintained the wires over the area where the injured plaintiff fell, and thus, owed no duty to the injured plaintiff. In addition, CDR also demonstrated its prima facie entitlement to summary judgment by establishing that the subject service and maintenance agreement was not a comprehensive maintenance obligation which displaced St. Luke’s duty to safely maintain the premises (see Cochrane v Warwick Assoc., 282 AD2d 567 [2001]). In opposition, the plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact. Accordingly, the Supreme Court erred in denying the cross motions for summary judgment. Ritter, J.E, Goldstein, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to foreclose a mechanic’s lien, the defendants Arben Corporation and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company appeal from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Rudolph, J.), entered June 12, 2002, as denied their cross motion for summary judgment discharging the lien as a willful exaggeration pursuant to Lien Law §§ 39 and 39-a, and on their counterclaim alleging breach of contract and as granted that branch of the plaintiffs motion which was for summary judgment dismissing Arben Corporation’s counterclaims to recover damages for maintenance and protection of traffic. Ordered that the order is modified, by deleting the provision thereof granting that branch of the plaintiffs motion which was to dismiss Arben Corporation’s counterclaims to recover damages for maintenance and protection of traffic and substituting therefor a provision denying that branch of the motion; as so modified, the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. The Supreme Court properly held that the appellants failed to demonstrate, as a matter of law, that the plaintiff Minelli Construction Co., Inc. (hereinafter Minelli), willfully exaggerated the subject lien (see East Hills Metro v Dennis Constr. Corp., 277 AD2d 348 [2000]; Fidelity N.Y., FSB v Kensington-Johnson Corp., 234 AD2d 263 [1996]). The fact that a lien may contain improper charges does not, in and of itself, establish that a plaintiff willfully exaggerated a lien (see Goodman v Del-Sa-Co Foods, 15 NY2d 191 [1965]; Fidelity N.Y., FSB v Kensington-Johnson Corp., supra). This is particularly true in light of the requirement that Lien Law § 39-a must be strictly construed in favor of the party against whom the penalty is sought to be imposed (see Goodman v Del-Sa-Co Foods, supra; Pyramid Champlain Co. v Brosseau & Co., 267 AD2d 539 [1999]; Guzman v Estate of Fluker, 226 AD2d 676 [1996]). The appellants’ argument that sections 3.2 and 3.6 of the subcontract can be construed as a so-called “time for payment” clause is unavailing. Since the “pay-when-paid” provision contains express language which imposes a condition on the legal responsibility of Arben Corporation (hereinafter Arben) to pay Minelli, it cannot be construed as a time for payment clause (see West-Fair Elec. Contrs. v Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 87 NY2d 148 [1995]). Since the Supreme Court’s determination that the defendant New York State Thruway Authority acknowledged responsibility for Arben’s claims to recover damages for maintenance and protection of traffic is not supported by the record, the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court for a determination as to whether Minelli was responsible for Arben’s claims (see Passantino v Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y., 54 NY2d 840, 842 [1981]; CBM Equip. Corp. v Markwardt, 77 AD2d 815, 816 [1980]). The appellants’ remaining contentions are without merit (see West-Fair Elec. Contrs. v Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., supra at 158). Smith, J.E, Townes, Cozier and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Golar, J.), dated August 30, 2002, which denied his renewed motion for leave to enter judgment on the issue of liability against the defendants upon their default in appearing or answering. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The Supreme Court properly denied the plaintiff’s renewed motion for leave to enter a default judgment against the defendants. The plaintiff contends that he properly served the defendant Boubacar Bagayoko pursuant to the Vehicle and Traffic Law. However, the plaintiff failed to submit proof that the summons and complaint were mailed or delivered to that defendant pursuant to the terms of Vehicle and Traffic Law § 253 (see Gibson v Salvatore, 102 AD2d 861, 862 [1984]). Since the plaintiff failed to submit proof of proper service, the Supreme Court properly denied the renewed motion for leave to enter a default judgment on the issue of liability against the defendants. Altman, J.E, S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for breach of an employment agreement, the plaintiff appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (Lally, J.), entered January 31, 2002, which, after a nonjury trial, is in favor of him and against the defendant in the sum of only $56,141.37. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. The determination of the trial court after a nonjury trial should not be disturbed on appeal unless its conclusions could not have been reached upon any fair interpretation of the evidence, especially where the findings of fact rest in large measure on considerations relating to the credibility of witnesses (see Thoreson v Penthouse Intl., 80 NY2d 490, 495 [1992]; Loughran v Town of Eastchester, 299 AD2d 329 [2002]; Matter of Hartford Ins. Co. v Khan, 279 AD2d 524, 525 [2001]). The trial court’s rejection of the plaintiff’s interpretation of the disputed phrase regarding sales bonuses is supported by a fair interpretation of the evidence. The trial court’s determinations of the particular accounts attributable to the plaintiffs efforts, and the amount of damages were also supported by a fair interpretation of the evidence. Altman, J.E, Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for bréach of an oral contract, the plaintiff appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Dutchess County (Pagones, J.), entered May 9, 2002, which, inter alia, removed the action from the Justice Court of the Town of LaGrange to the Supreme Court, dismissed the action, and imposed a sanction on him. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. The Supreme Court properly granted the defendant’s motion to remove the action commenced in the Justice Court of the Town of LaGrange to itself, as the Justice Court did not have jurisdiction to grant certain relief (see CPLR 325 [b]). The Supreme Court correctly dismissed the action as the stipulation of settlement entered into by the parties, which arose out of a prior action, was a bar to the plaintiffs present claim (see Plunder Lanes v Bellamore, 180 AD2d 783 [1992]; Muller v City of New York, 113 AD2d 877 [1985]; Skogsberg Constr. Co. v Hawthorne Indus. Park, 94 AD2d 766 [1983]). Finally, the Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in granting that branch of the defendant’s motion which was to impose a sanction (see 22 NYCRR 130-1.1 [c] [1], [2]). Santucci, J.E, Smith, Luciano, Schmidt and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a matrimonial action in which the parties were divorced by judgment dated August 18, 1995, the plaintiff appeals, as limited by her brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Leis, J.), entered September 3, 2002, as, after a hearing, granted that branch of the defendant’s motion which was to change residential custody of the parties’ child to the father. Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The plaintiff failed to preserve for appellate review her claim that the defendant’s motion should have been barred by res judicata and collateral estoppel, since she did not raise these defenses before the hearing court (see Szigyarto v Szigyarto, 64 NY2d 275, 280 [1985]; Norwalk v J.P. Morgan & Co., 268 AD2d 413, 415 [2000]). In any event, although the defendant’s motion for a change in custody contained similar allegations to those he raised in an earlier proceeding, since the allegations in the motion were primarily based upon events and circumstances occurring after the prior proceeding, the doctrines of res judicata and collateral estoppel are not applicable here (see generally Friederwitzer v Friederwitzer, 55 NY2d 89, 94 [1982]). Contrary to the plaintiff’s contentions, the court properly determined that a hearing was appropriate under the circumstances. A parent seeking a change in custody is not automatically entitled to a hearing; rather, the parent must make an evidentiary showing sufficient to warrant a hearing (see DiVittorio v DiVittorio, 283 AD2d 390, 390-391 [2001]; Matter of Johnson v Semple, 273 AD2d 311 [2000]). The defendant met his threshold burden of proffering sufficient evidence to warrant a hearing to determine whether, under the totality of the circumstances, a change of custody would be in the best interests of the child. Since the court’s custody determination has a sound and substantial basis in the record, it will not be disturbed on appeal (see Eschbach v Eschbach, 56 NY2d 167, 173-174 [1982]). Altman, J.E, Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In an action for a judgment declaring that the defendant is obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiff in an underlying action entitled Ahmad v Marku, commenced in the Supreme Court, Kings County, under Index No. 5809/00, the defendant appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Nassau County (McCarty, J.), entered December 12, 2002, which denied its motion for summary judgment. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Kings County, for the entry of a judgment declaring that the defendant is not obligated to defend or indemnify the plaintiff in the underlying action. The defendant provided insurance coverage for property owned by the plaintiff. The policy required the plaintiff to notify the defendant “as soon as practicable of an ‘occurrence’ . . . which may result in a claim.” The definition of “occurrence” included “an accident.” In August 1997, a dog kept on the plaintiffs premises attacked a NYNEX employee who allegedly was on the property unlawfully. The victim was removed from the scene by ambulance and hospitalized for three days. Although the plaintiff was aware of the incident, it did not notify the defendant of it. In February 2000 the victim commenced the underlying personal injury action, among others, against the plaintiff. The defendant was then notified of the incident. The defendant disclaimed coverage due to late notice and the plaintiff commenced this action seeking a declaration that the defendant is required to defend and indemnify it in the underlying action. Compliance with the notice provision of an insurance policy is a condition precedent to coverage (see New York Cent. Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v Riley, 234 AD2d 279 [1996]). Therefore, absent a valid excuse, the failure to comply with the notice requirements vitiates coverage (see American Home Assur. Co. v International Ins. Co., 90 NY2d 433 [1997]). A reasonable belief in nonliability will excuse the delay in giving notice, but the insured has the burden of showing the reasonableness of such excuse (see White v City^ of New York, 81 NY2d 955 [1993]). Based on the evidence available to the plaintiff in 1997, a reasonable and prudent insured would have concluded that there existed a strong possibility that a liability claim would be made due to the fact that the victim was removed from the scene by ambulance and hospitalized for three days (see Greater N.Y. Mut. Ins. Co. v Farrauto, 158 AD2d 514 [1990]). Accordingly, the plaintiffs delay in giving notice was not excusable. Krausman, J.P., McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
— In an action to declare a marriage null and void, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Shapiro, J), entered July 9, 2002, which granted the defendant’s motion to vacate so much of a judgment of the same court (Montagnino, R.), dated April 16, 2001, as, upon the defendant’s failure to appear at an inquest, distributed the parties’ property. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs or disbursements. As a general rule in matrimonial cases, the courts have adopted a liberal policy in vacating defaults if the moving party shows a reasonable excuse for the default and the existence of a meritorious defense (see Conner v Conner, 240 AD2d 614 [1997]; Baruch v Baruch, 224 AD2d 649 [1996]). Here, the Supreme Court properly determined that the defendant met his burden. Santucci, J.P., Goldstein, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, for a judgment declaring that the defendant is obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiff in an action entitled Lehmann v Shanna Golden, Ltd., pending in the Supreme Court, Queens County, under Index No. 31376/01, the defendant appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Queens County (O’Donoghue, J.), dated July 29, 2002, as denied its motion for summary judgment and granted the plaintiffs cross motion for summary judgment. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, the motion is granted, the cross motion is denied, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Queens County, for the entry of a judgment declaring that the defendant is not obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiff in the action entitled Lehmann v Shanna Golden, Ltd., pending in the Supreme Court, Queens County, under Index No. 31376/ 01. The defendant issued a general liability insurance policy with a liquor liability endorsement to the plaintiff, a restaurant owner. The general liability portion of the policy excludes coverage, among, other things, for assault and battery “whether caused by or at the instigation of, or at the direction of the insured, his/her employees, customers, patrons, guests or any cause whatsoever, including, but not limited to claims of negligent or improper . . . supervision of . . . patrons or guests and negligence in failing to protect customers, patrons or guests.” The liquor liability endorsement provides coverage for damages “sustained by any person if such liability is imposed upon the insured by reason of the selling, serving or giving of any alcoholic beverage at or from the insured premises.” The endorsement lists three exclusions, none relevant here, which “are added to the exclusions section of the General Liability Coverage” (emphasis supplied). The liquor liability endorsement does not specifically include an assault and battery exclusion, but the endorsement is expressly made “subject to the terms contained in the General Liability Coverage.” The word “terms,” as used in the policy, “means provisions, limitations, exclusions, definitions and conditions” (emphasis supplied). Michael Lehmann, a customer at the plaintiff’s restaurant, was shot by Daniel Vergez, a fellow patron, who allegedly was intoxicated. Lehmann subsequently commenced an action against Vergez and the plaintiff alleging, among other things, a Dram Shop Act cause of action against the plaintiff (see General Obligations Law § 11-101). After the defendant disclaimed coverage based on the assault and battery exclusion, the plaintiff commenced this action seeking, among other things, a judgment declaring that the defendant is obligated to defend and indemnify it in the underlying action. The Supreme Court denied the defendant’s motion for summary judgment and granted the plaintiff’s cross motion for summary judgment, concluding that the defendant is obligated to defend and indemnify the plaintiff. We reverse. Contrary to the plaintiffs contention, the assault and battery exclusion is applicable to the liquor liability coverage as well as to the general liability coverage. “[I]n construing an endorsement to an insurance policy, the endorsement and the policy must be read together, and the words of the policy remain in full force and effect except as altered by the words of the endorsement” (County of Columbia v Continental Ins. Co., 83 NY2d 618, 628 [1994]). The liquor liability endorsement expressly provides that it is subject to all the terms of the policy, which, by definition, includes the policy exclusions. The endorsement further provides that the exclusions listed therein are added to the general liability coverage exclusions; they do not replace the general exclusions. Pursuant to the clear and unambiguous terms of the policy and endorsement, the assault and battery exclusion applies to the liquor liability endorsement. Consequently, the defendant has no duty to defend or indemnify the plaintiff (see County of Columbia v Continental Ins. Co., supra; Sphere Drake Ins. Co. v Block 7206 Corp., 265 AD2d 78, 79-80). Altman, J.P, McGinity, Luciano and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the defendant third-party plaintiff, Mutual Housing Association of New York, Inc., and the third-party defendant, Fresh Meadows Painting Corp., appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Held, J.), dated May 24, 2002, as, upon a jury verdict awarding the plaintiff Cezary Tworek, inter alia,. damages in the sum of $500,000 for future lost wages, is in favor of that plaintiff and against the defendant third-party plaintiff, and in favor of the defendant third-party plaintiff and against the third-party defendant. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs. The plaintiff Cezary Tworek was injured when he fell from a ladder while employed as a laborer. After a trial, the jury awarded him, inter alia, damages in the sum of $500,000 for future lost wages. The defendant third-party plaintiff, Mutual Housing Association of New York, Inc. (hereinafter MHANY), and the third-party defendant, Fresh Meadows Painting Corp. (hereinafter Fresh Meadows), appeal. We affirm. On the record presented, the sole argument raised by MHANY and Fresh Meadows that was preserved for appellate review is that the jury’s award of future lost wages should be set aside as a matter of law based on testimony that the injured plaintiff was employable in a position that did not involve heavy physical labor, such as light or sedentary clerical work. However, this argument is without merit. Even crediting the testimony as to the injured plaintiffs future employability and the wages he might earn, the amount of future lost earnings awarded by the jury was less than the difference between the figure proffered by the plaintiffs as the amount of damages and the highest wage mitigation figure proffered by the defendants. Thus, the jury’s verdict clearly took into account the injured plaintiffs future employability and his duty to mitigate his damages (see Perla v New York Daily News, 123 AD2d 349 [1986]; Bell v Shopwell, Inc., 119 AD2d 715 [1986]). The appellants’ remaining contentions are not preserved for appellate review and, in any event, are without merit. Ritter, J.P, Smith, Goldstein and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Nastasi, J.), entered July 31, 2002, as granted the defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action alleging a violation of Labor Law § 240 (1) and denied their cross motion for partial summary judgment on the issue of liability on that cause of action. Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with costs, that branch of the motion which was for summary judgment dismissing the cause of action alleging a violation of Labor Law § 240 (1) is denied, that cause of action is reinstated, and the cross motion is granted. It is well established that Labor Law § 240 (1) imposes absolute liability upon a contractor or owner who fails to provide safety devices to an independent contractor at an elevated work site where the lack of such devices is a substantial factor in causing the independent contractor’s injuries, even where the contractor or owner exercises no supervision, direction, or control over the independent contractor’s work (see Zimmer v Chemung County Performing Arts, 65 NY2d 513 [1985]; Madden v Trustees of Duryea Presbyt. Church, 210 AD2d 382 [1994]). The plaintiffs established their entitlement to partial judgment as a matter of law on the issue of liability by presenting evidence that no safety devices were provided (see Taeschner v M & M Restorations, 295 AD2d 598 [2002]). In opposition, the defendants failed to raise a triable issue of fact regarding liability. While a plaintiff cannot recover where his or her conduct was the sole proximate cause of his or her injuries (see e.g. Lozada v GBE Contr. Corp., 295 AD2d 482 [2002]), that defense was not available to the defendants under the circumstances of this case (see Vacanti v Habasit Globe, 283 AD2d 935 [2001]; DiVincenzo v Tripart Dev., 272 AD2d 904 [2000]). The defendants’ remaining contentions are without merit. Florio, J.E, Friedmann, H. Miller and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In an action, inter alia, pursuant to REAFL article 15 to compel the determination of claims to real property, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Fitts, J.), dated October 25, 2002, which, among other things, denied his motion to stay an auction sale of the subject real property and to enjoin the defendants from interfering with his possession of the subject real property, and granted the defendants’ cross motion to dismiss the action as time-barred. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The Supreme Court properly dismissed this action as time-barred. The plaintiff is the former owner of certain real property on Fire Island, for which the taxes applicable to the year 1993-1994 were not paid. A tax deed issued to the defendant County of Suffolk was recorded on April 7, 1998. The plaintiff was given actual notice of the tax deed within six months of that date (see Matter of ISCA Enters. v City of New York, 77 NY2d 688 [1991], cert denied 503 US 906 [1992]; cf. Campbell v City of New York, 77 NY2d 688, 698-699 [1991], cert denied sub nom. Matter of ISCA Enters, v City of New York, 503 US 906 [1992]; Meadow Farm Realty Corp. v Pekich, 251 AD2d 634, 635 [1998]). The plaintiff commenced this action on May 16, 2002, after the expiration of the three-year limitations period applicable to the plaintiffs claims (see Suffolk County Tax Act § 53; D & S Realty Dev. v Town of Huntington, 295 AD2d 306 [2002]; Bidnick v Johnson, 253 AD2d 779 [1998]; Ivins v County of Suffolk, 220 AD2d 388 [1995]; Mareterra Corp. v Sgroi, 156 AD2d 344 [1989]). Contrary to the plaintiff’s contention, repealed Real Property Tax Law § 1020 (3) may not be relied upon to save this action from dismissal. We also reject the plaintiffs claims that the defendants failed to give him notice that the statutory redemption period would expire in April 2001 and that the defendants told him as late as 2001 that he could redeem the property at any time before an auction sale, and that these claims are not time-barred. The plaintiff is charged with knowledge of the statutory provisions affecting the control or disposition of his property (see Sheehan v County of Suffolk, 67 NY2d 52 [1986], cert denied 478 US 1006 [1986]). Moreover, he may not rely on the defendants’ alleged error to estop them from asserting the statute of limitations as a defense, when reasonable diligence would have revealed the inaccuracy of the information to a good-faith inquirer (see Matter of Parkview Assoc. v City of New York, 71 NY2d 274, 282 [1988], appeal dismissed, cert denied 488 US 801 [1988]; Lily Pond Enters. v City of New York, 149 AD2d 412, 413-414 [1989]). In light of our determination, the parties’ remaining contentions need not be reached. Santucci, J.P, McGinity, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, the plaintiff appeals from an order of the Supreme Court, Orange County (Rosenwasser, J.), dated December 16, 2002, which denied her application pursuant to Workers’ Compensation Law § 29 (5) for judicial approval nunc pro tunc of the settlement of the action. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in denying the plaintiff’s application pursuant to Workers’ Compensation Law § 29 (5) for judicial approval nunc pro tunc of the settlement of the plaintiff’s personal injury action. Worker’s Compensation Law § 29 (5) bars a claimant from receiving continuing workers’ compensation benefits where the claimant fails to obtain the written consent of the carrier or a compromise order from the court before settlement of a third-party action, (see Matter of Johnson v Buffalo & Erie County Private Indus. Council, 84 NY2d 13, 19 [1994]; Matter of Consolazio, 272 AD2d 614 [2000]). However, a party may seek judicial approval of a previously-agreed-to settlement beyond the three-month period described in Workers’ Compensation Law § 29 (5) where the settlement is reasonable, the delay in applying for the order of approval was not caused by the party’s neglect or fault, and the workers’ compensation carrier was not prejudiced by the delay (see Hargrove v Becom Real, 287 AD2d 598 [2001]; Neblett v Davis, 260 AD2d 559 [1999]; Harosh v Diaz, 253 AD2d 850 [1998]; Baiano v Squires, 113 AD2d 732 [1985]). The resolution of an application for nunc pro tunc approval of a settlement pursuant to Workers’ Compensation Law § 29 (5) is left to the discretion of the court (see Matter of Banks v National Union Ins. Co., 304 AD2d 573 [2003]; Matter of Hermance v Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co., 265 AD2d 328 [1999]). Applying the relevant factors to this case, the Supreme Court providently exercised its discretion in denying the application for judicial approval nunc pro tunc of the settlement. S. Miller, J.E, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ, concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, inter alia, to review a determination of the respondent Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications of the City of New York dated January 13, 2000, which denied the petitioner a public pay telephone franchise, the petitioner appeals from (1) an order and judgment (one paper) of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Vaughan, J.), dated July 27, 2001, which granted the respondent’s cross motion to dismiss the petition and dismissed the petition, and (2) an order of the same court dated September 5, 2001, which denied its motion, in effect, for reargument. Ordered that the appeal from the order is dismissed; and it is further, Ordered that the order and judgment is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered, that one bill of costs is awarded to the respondent. The Supreme Court properly determined that the four-month statute of limitations applicable to proceedings pursuant to CPLR article 78 barred the petitioner’s challenge to the determination of the Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications of the City of New York denying it a public pay telephone franchise (see Solnick v Whalen, 49 NY2d 224 [1980]). In a proceeding to review a government agency’s determination, the determination generally becomes final and binding, and the statute of limitations begins to run, when the aggrieved party is notified of it (see Matter of Village of Westbury v Department of Transp. of State of N.Y., 75 NY2d 62, 72 [1989]). Here, the petitioner was notified of the determination on or about January 13, 2000. Since this proceeding was not commenced until on or about July 11, 2000, it is time-barred (see CPLR 217). In light of our determination, it is unnecessary to address the petitioner’s remaining contentions on its appeal from the order and judgment. The petitioner’s motion, denominated as one for reargument and renewal, was actually a motion for reargument, the denial of which is not appealable (see High v County of Westchester, 238 AD2d 476 [1997]). Accordingly, we dismiss the appeal from the order. Altman, J.P, Smith, Friedmann and Crane, JJ., concur.
In two related proceedings pursuant to Social Services Law § 384-b to terminate the parental rights of the parents of Baby Girl C. and Isiah S. on the ground of permanent neglect, the father appeals from two dispositional orders of the Family Court, Kings County (Staton, J.), both dated July 16, 2002 (one in each proceeding), which, after fact-finding and dispositional hearings, terminated his parental rights and transferred custody and guardianship of the subject children to Leake and Watts Services, Inc., and the Commissioner of Social Services of the City of New York for the purpose of adoption. Ordered that the orders are affirmed, without costs or distributions. Contrary to the father’s contentions, the evidence presented at the fact-finding hearing established that the agency made diligent, efforts to assist him in maintaining contact with the children and planning for their future (see Social Services Law § 384-b [7] [a]) by, inter alia, keeping him apprised of the children’s welfare during monthly telephone conversations, facilitating referrals for the father’s enrollment in the required programs during his incarceration, and repeatedly reminding him of the need to find a resource for the care of his children (see Matter of Vedal Dural B., 289 AD2d 574 [2001]; Matter of Osuany G., 186 AD2d 476 [1992]). Moreover, the finding of permanent neglect was supported by clear and convincing evidence that the father failed to plan for the children’s future, as he was unable to provide any “realistic and feasible” alternative to having them remain in foster care until his earliest release from prison, some 16 months later (see Matter of Star Leslie W., 63 NY2d 136, 143 [1984]; Matter of Renelle S., 288 AD2d 229, 230 [2001] ; Matter of C. Children, 253 AD2d 554, 555 [1998]; Matter of Carmen N., 237 AD2d 607, 608 [1997]). The father was apprised that his aunt was not an acceptable resource, and discussions with the father’s sister revealed that she was disinclined to come forward as a possible resource after seeing how happy the children were in their foster home. Despite adequate warning from the agency of the consequences of failing to plan, the father did not suggest any other potential resources (see Matter of Marcel F., 212 AD2d 705, 706 [1995]). As stated by the Court of Appeals, “an incarcerated parent may not satisfy the planning requirement of the statute where the only plan offered is long-term foster care lasting potentially for the child’s entire minority” (Matter of Gregory B., 74 NY2d 77, 90 [1989]). The finding that it was in the children’s best interest to be adopted by their foster parents, with whom they have lived and thrived for most of their lives, is supported by a preponderance of the evidence (see Matter of Tenisha Tishonda T., 302 AD2d 534, 535 [2003]; Matter of Luno Scott A., 292 AD2d 602, 603 [2002] ; Matter of Sarah Jean R., 290 AD2d 511, 512 [2002]). Prudenti, EJ., Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
In a juvenile delinquency proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 3, St. Mary’s Children and Family Services appeals, by permission, from an order of the Family Court, Kings County (Hepner, J.), dated September 24, 2002, which, after a hearing upon a petition for a one-year extension of the subject child’s placement directed it “in the future, to respond to all explorations of placement by informing the Department of Probation exactly what program they intend to place a future respondent in.” Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, without costs or disbursements. After the Family Court issued an order of disposition extending the placement of the subject child, the Family Court issued a separate order directing St. Mary’s Children and Family Services (hereinafter St. Mary’s) “in the future, to respond to all explorations of placement by informing the Department of Probation exactly what program they intend to place a future respondent in.” The Family Court erred in failing to give St. Mary’s notice or an opportunity to be heard before issuing the order. In any event, the Family Court exceeded its authority (see generally Matter of Quinton A., 49 NY2d 328 [1980]; Matter of Dewayne B., 289 AD2d 571 [2001]). S. Miller, J.P, Friedmann, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, inter alia, to compel the production of certain documents, Coachlight Square on the Hudson Association, Inc., appeals, as limited by its brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (West, J.), entered February 13, 2002, as, upon reargument, adhered to its original determination in an order and judgment (one paper) of the same court entered November 14, 2001, denying that branch of the cross motion of Coachlight Square on the Hudson Association, Inc., which was to impose a sanction upon the petitioner and the 'nonparty, Peter Klose, pursuant to 22 NYCRR 130-1.1, and, sua sponte, vacated so much of the order and judgment entered November 14, 2001, as dismissed the counterclaim of Coachlight Square on the Hudson Association, Inc., “without prejudice,” and instead dismissed the counterclaim “with prejudice.” Ordered that on the Court’s own motion, so much of the notice of appeal as purports to appeal as of right from that portion of the order entered February 13, 2002, which, sua sponte, vacated so much of the order and judgment entered November 14, 2001, as dismissed the counterclaim of Coachlight Square on the Hudson Association, Inc., “without prejudice,” and instead dismissed the counterclaim “with prejudice,” is treated as an application for leave to appeal from that portion of the order, and leave to appeal is granted (see CPLR 5701 [c]); and it is further, Ordered that the order is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, with one bill of costs, that branch of the cross motion of Coachlight Square on the Hudson Association, Inc., which was to impose a sanction upon the petitioner and the nonparty, Peter Klose, pursuant to 22 NYCRR 130-1.1, is granted, that portion of the order which, sua sponte, vacated so much of the order and judgment entered November 14, 2001, as dismissed the counterclaim of Coachlight Square on the Hudson Association, Inc., “without prejudice,” and instead dismissed the counterclaim “with prejudice,” is vacated, and the matter is remitted to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, for a hearing in accordance herewith. The petitioner raised questions concerning the propriety of a 1997 investment made by a condominium association, Coach-light Square on the Hudson Association, Inc. (hereinafter Coachlight or the condominium), as well as the role of John Mattis, an investment advisor who was then Coachlight’s treasurer. Coachlight acted on Mattis’s advice in making the investment. The investment was made through Mattis’s employer. Coachlight placed $150,000 of its reserve in a high-yield fund. Mattis earned a commission of approximately $1,600. The investment was liquidated in 1999, and yielded Coachlight a $17,000 profit. At the time the petitioner first questioned the investment, he was neither a condominium unit owner nor a member of Coachlight’s board. He purported to be acting on behalf of his mother, who was a unit owner. In response to the petitioner’s questions, Coachlight asked its attorney, Peter E Gass, to examine the matter, with the possibility of litigation in mind. Gass concluded, inter alia, that Coachlight made money on the investment, and that although Mattis profited from the transaction, the condominium was not harmed as it would have had to pay the same fees or charges for its investment in any event. Gass showed the petitioner the documents upon which he based his review. Coachlight decided not to pursue the matter to litigation against Mattis for a number of reasons, including the lack of economic sense in incurring expenses and attorney’s fees to pursue a speculative recovery, over a transaction that netted the condominium a profit. Thereafter, the petitioner acquired his mother’s condominium unit, was elected to Coachlight’s board, and brought this proceeding, inter alia, to obtain documents pertaining to Coachlight’s inquiry. Coachlight asserted a counterclaim for breach of fiduciary duty and cross-moved, inter alia, to dismiss the petition and to impose a sanction upon the petitioner and his counsel, under 22 NYCRR 130-1.1. The Supreme Court, among other things, dismissed the petition and the counterclaim, both “without prejudice,” and denied as academic, also “without prejudice” Coachlight’s cross motion to impose a sanction. The petitioner commenced a new CPLR article 78 proceeding seeking similar relief. Shortly thereafter, in this proceeding, the condominium moved for leave to reargue and renew, seeking to impose a sanction upon the petitioner and his counsel. The Supreme Court granted leave to reargue, but, upon reargument, adhered to its initial determination, finding a sanction inappropriate because the petitioner had asserted “prima facie claims for the relief sought.” Then, apparently confusing the condominium’s breach of fiduciary duty counterclaim with its cross motion to impose a sanction under 22 NYCRR 130-1.1, the Supreme Court, sua sponte, dismissed the condominium’s counterclaim with prejudice in light of its finding that the petitioner had stated “prima facie claims for relief.” The Supreme Court erred in denying Coachlight’s cross motion to impose a sanction. This proceeding was designed merely to harass Coachlight, Gass, and the individual current and former condominium board members named as respondents to this proceeding, some of whom concededly were named merely because the petitioner “believed” they had relevant documents in their possession. The petitioner himself recognized that as of December 12, 2001, the respondents spent “in excess of $70,000” in legal fees defending a proceeding whose purpose was to challenge a business judgment to forego litigation that made no economic sense. Under the circumstances of this case, we conclude that the proceeding was frivolous within the meaning of 22 NYCRR 130-1.1 (c) (see Doone v Reiser, 272 AD2d 368 [2000]). Even assuming, as did the Supreme Court, that the petitioner asserted “prima facie” claims, this alone does not suffice to deny an award of costs and sanctions where the proceeding’s primary purpose is to harass (see Matter of Gordon v Marrone, 202 AD2d 104 [1994]). Accordingly, we remit the matter to the Supreme Court, Westchester County, for a hearing on the issue of the amount of an appropriate sanction to be imposed, pursuant to 22 NYCRR 130-1.1. We further conclude that the Supreme Court erred in, sua sponte, dismissing Coachlight’s breach of fiduciary duty counterclaim “with prejudice.” The stated reason for the Supreme Court’s action was that the petitioner had asserted “prima facie” claims for relief. As noted, it appears that the Supreme Court confused Coachlight’s counterclaim with its independent cross motion to impose a sanction, and in doing so, erred. In addition, the Supreme Court erred in dismissing the counterclaim sua sponte, as there was no pending motion for summary judgment requesting that relief (see Skyline Enters. of N.Y. Corp. v Amuram Realty Co., 288 AD2d 292 [2001]). Altman, J.E, H. Miller, Adams and Townes, JJ., concur.
In a support proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, the father appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of an order and judgment (one paper) of the Family Court, Suffolk County (Spinner, J.), entered March 10, 2003, as, upon directing his incarceration for contempt of court, imposed incarceration costs of $197 per day upon him. Ordered that the order and judgment is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, without costs or disbursements, and the provision imposing incarceration costs is deleted. The Family Court exceeded its authority by imposing incarceration costs upon the father in connection with the finding that he was in contempt of court for wilful failure to obey a support order (see Family Ct Act § 454; Matter of Suffolk County Dept, of Social Servs. [Matthew] v Harry, 306 AD2d 490 [2003]; Matter of Moron v Moron, 306 AD2d 349 [2003]; Matter of DeMarco v Newton, 305 AD2d 501 [2003]). Altman, J.E, Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a child support proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 4, the father appeals from an order of the Family Ct, Suffolk County (Simeone, J.), dated October 8, 2002, which confirmed a determination of the same court (Livrieri, H.E.), dated October 8, 2002, finding, after a hearing, that he violated an amended order of the same court dated February 8, 1999, and thereupon committed him to the Suffolk County Correctional Facility for a term of 180 days’ imprisonment. Ordered that the order dated October 8, 2002, is affirmed, with costs. The Family Court properly found the father to be in contempt for willfully refusing to pay court-ordered child support. The father’s failure to pay support as ordered constituted “prima facie evidence of a willful violation” (Family Ct Act § 454 [3] [a]; see Matter of Powers v Powers, 86 NY2d 63, 66 [1995]; Matter of Sapp v Taylor, 298 AD 2d 590, 591 [2002]). The burden then shifted to the father to rebut the prima facie evidence by offering some competent, credible evidence of his inability to make the required payments (see Matter of Powers v Powers, supra at 64; Matter of Sapp v Taylor, supra at 592). The father failed to present any credible proof that he was financially unable to meet his obligation (see Gunn v Gunn, 261 AD2d 360, 361 [1999]; Matter of Porcelain v Porcelain, 143 AD2d 834 [1988]). The father’s remaining contention is without merit. Krausman, J.E, McGinity, Cozier and Rivera, JJ., concur.
In a juvenile delinquency proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 3, the appeal is from an order of disposition of the Family Court, Queens County (Lubow, J.), dated March 26, 2002, which, upon a fact-finding order of the same court dated February 8, 2002, made after a hearing, finding that the appellant had committed acts which, if committed by an adult, would have constituted the crimes of assault in the second degree, menacing in the second degree, and criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree, adjudged her to be a juvenile delinquent and placed her in the custody of the Office of Children and Family Services for a period of 18 months. The appeal brings up for review the fact-finding order dated February 8, 2002. Ordered that the appeal from so much of the order of disposition as placed the appellant in the custody of the New York State Office of Children and Family Services for a period of 18 months is dismissed as academic, without costs or disbursements, as the period of placement has expired (see Matter of Wanji W., 305 AD2d 690 [2003]); and it is further, Ordered that the order of disposition is affirmed insofar as reviewed, without costs or disbursements. The appellant’s contention that the evidence was not legally sufficient to support the Family Court’s finding that she committed acts which, if committed by an adult, would have constituted the crimes of assault in the second degree, menacing in the second degree, and criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree, is unpreserved for appellate review (see Matter of Bomani L., 300 AD2d 586, 587 [2002]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the presentment agency (see Matter of Frank C., 283 AD2d 643, 643-644 [2001]), we find that it was legally sufficient to support the determination made in the fact-finding order. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses. Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see Matter of James B., 262 AD2d 480, 481 [1999]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the determination was not against the weight of the evidence (cf. CPL 470.15 [5]). Florio, J.E, Friedmann, H. Miller and Mastro, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 to review a determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Putnam Valley dated May 9, 2002, which, after a hearing, declined to reconsider the petitioner’s application for an area variance, the appeal is from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Putnam County (Hickman, J.), dated October 7, 2002, which granted the petition, annulled the determination, and remitted the matter to the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Putnam Valley for a rehearing with respect to the merits of the petitioner’s application. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, with costs, the petition is denied, the proceeding is dismissed, and the determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Putnam Valley dated May 9, 2002, is reinstated. The petitioner purchased a substandard parcel of land which adjoined his property in the Town of Putnam Valley. When he sought to develop the substandard parcel he discovered that it had merged with his own property by operation of law pursuant to Putnam Valley Zoning Ordinance § 165-43B because he took title in the same manner as that of his own parcel. In an effort to avoid the merger, the petitioner caused a purported correction deed which conveyed the substandard parcel from he and his wife to him alone to be drawn up and filed. The petitioner then filed an application for an area variance for the substandard parcel with the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Putnam Valley (hereinafter the ZBA). At the public hearing the ZBA members advised the petitioner that the purported correction deed from him and his wife to him alone was insufficient to vacate the merger. One board member advised the petitioner to obtain a correction deed from the original grantor. However, the chairman of the ZBA advised the petitioner that he could not vacate the merger by filing a correction deed. Rather, he advised the petitioner to first seek a subdivision and then request an area variance after the two parcels had been subdivided. The ZBA issued a determination dated October 25, 2001, that the criteria for an area variance had not been met because the lots had merged. The petitioner obtained a correction deed from the original grantor and submitted a second application for an area variance. After two public hearings, the ZBA concluded that the petitioner had paid additional consideration for the correction deed and that, in any event, a correction deed could not vacate the merger. The ZBA issued a determination dated May 9, 2002, declining to consider the second application on the ground that it was barred by the doctrine of res judicata. The petitioner commenced this proceeding to review the May 9, 2002, determination. The Supreme Court granted the petition, annulled the determination, and remitted the matter to the ZBA for a rehearing on the merits of the second application. We reverse. A local zoning board has broad discretion in considering variance applications, and judicial review is limited to ascertaining whether the action taken by the zoning board was illegal, arbitrary and capricious, or an abuse of discretion (see Matter of Ifrah v Utschig, 98 NY2d 304 [2002]; Matter of Sasso v Osgood, 86 NY2d 374 [1995]). In response to the petitioner’s first application for a variance, the ZBA determined that a merger pursuant to Putnam Valley Zoning Ordinance § 165.-43B could not be vacated by the filing of a correction deed. The ZBA’s interpretation of the local zoning ordinance is entitled to great deference (see Matter of Mejias v Town of Shelter Is. Zoning Bd. of Appeals, 298 AD2d 458 [2002]). Consistent with its previous determination, it was within the province of the ZBA to conclude that the petitioner’s second application, which merely included a correction deed from the original grantor, did not present changed circumstances warranting its reconsideration of the merits of the petitioner’s application (see Matter of Riina v Baum, 300 AD2d 665 [2002]; Matter of Freddolino v Village of Warwick Zoning Bd. of Appeals, 192 AD2d 839 [1993]; Matter of Pettit v Board of Appeals of Town of Islip, 160 AD2d 1006 [1990]; Matter of Freeman v Town of Ithaca Zoning Bd. of Appeals, 61 AD2d 1070 [1978]). Moreover, the record supports the determination of the ZBA that the correction deed was procured through the payment of consideration and therefore the ZBA properly declined to consider it (see Matter of Citizens for Hudson Val. v New York State Bd. on Elec. Generation Siting & Envt., 281 AD2d 89, 99 [2001]; Matter of Supkis v Town of Sand Lake Zoning Bd. of Appeals, 227 AD2d 779, 781 [1996]). In light of our determination, we need not reach the remaining contentions of the ZBA. Prudenti, PJ., Smith, Friedmann and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
In a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, inter alia, to compel John M. Dolce, as Public Safety Commissioner of the City of White Plains, Mark E. Daman, Chief of the Fire Department of the City of White Plains, the Department of Public Safety of the City of White Plains, and the City of White Plains to comply with a decision and order of this court dated June 19, 2000, John M. Dolce, as Public Safety Commissioner of the City of White Plains, Mark E. Daman, Chief of the Fire Department of the City of White Plains, the Department of Public Safety of the City of White Plains, and the City of White Plains appeal from (1) a judgment of the Supreme Court, Westchester County (Barone, J.), entered August 13, 2002, which granted the petition to the extent of directing them to comply with the decision and order of this Court dated June 19, 2000, and to cease the regular assignment of firefighters to perform the duties of fire lieutenant on a nonemergency basis, and (2) so much of an order of the same court entered November 18, 2002, as, upon re-argument, adhered to the original determination. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed; and it is further, Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from; and it is further, Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the petitioners. Pursuant to a decision and order of this Court dated June 19, 2000 (Matter of MacRae v Dolce, 273 AD2d 389 [2000]), John M. Dolce, the Public Safety Commissioner of the City of White Plains, Mark E. Daman, Chief of the Fire Department of the City of White Plains, the Department of Public Safety of the City of White Plains, and the City of White Plains (hereinafter collectively referred to as the City) were prohibited from routinely assigning firefighters to perform the duties of fire lieutenant on a nonemergency basis. The Supreme Court properly determined, based on the affidavits submitted by the parties herein, that the City violated that prohibition set forth in Matter of MacRae v Dolce (supra). Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly directed the City to comply with the decision and order of this Court in Matter of MacRae v Dolce (supra) and to cease regularly assigning firefighters to perform the duties of fire lieutenant on a nonemergency basis. Prudenti, PJ, Altman, Smith and Crane, JJ., concur.
In a guardianship proceeding pursuant to Mental Hygiene Law article 81, Jack Gevins appeals, as limited by his brief, from so much of a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Pesce, J.), dated March 4, 2003, as appointed Steven T. Rondos a coguardian of the property of Bertha W. and prohibited him from retaining counsel without prior court approval. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, by deleting the provision thereof appointing Steven T. Rondos as co-guardian of the property of Bertha W; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed insofar as appealed from, without costs or disbursements. In guardianship proceedings pursuant to Mental Hygiene Law article 81, “ ‘strangers will not be appointed [guardian] of the person or property of the incompetent, unless it is impossible to find within the family circle, or their nominees, one who is qualified to serve’ ” (Matter of Chase, 264 AD2d 330, 331 [1999], quoting Matter of Dietz, 247 App Div 366, 367 [1936]). In this case, the appellant, who is the nephew of Bertha W., demonstrated his ability to serve as guardian for his incapacitated aunt. We discern nothing in the record to suggest that the appellant requires the appointment of a coguardian to assist him in the discharge of his guardianship duties (cf Matter of Rothman, 263 NY 31, 34 [1933]; Matter of Lyon, 52 AD2d 847 [1976], affd 41 NY2d 1056 [1977]; Matter of West, 13 AD2d 599 [1961]). The appellant’s remaining contention is without merit. Ritter, J.E, Florio, S. Miller and Luciano, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Rockland County (Nelson, J.), rendered June 16, 1998, convicting him of rape in the first degree and sexual abuse in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded to the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the trier of fact, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Its determination should be accorded great weight on appeal and should not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record (see People v Garafolo, 44 AD2d 86 [1974]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant has not preserved for appellate review his remaining contention that the verdicts were inconsistent (see CPL 470.05 [2]). In any event, the argument is without merit (see People v Palmer, 272 AD2d 891 [2000]). Florio, J.P., Friedmann, H. Miller and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County (Boklan, J.), rendered October 29, 2002, convicting him of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. The appeal brings up for review the denial, after a hearing, of those branches of the defendant’s omnibus motion which were to suppress physical evidence and his statements to law enforcement officials. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, and the matter is remitted to the County Court, Nassau County, for further proceedings pursuant to CPL 460.50 (5). The hearing court properly denied these branches of the defendant’s omnibus motion which were to suppress a loaded pistol recovered from his vehicle and subsequent statements he made to police. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the record supports the hearing court’s determination that the defendant voluntarily consented to the search of his sports utility vehicle (see People v Gonzalez, 39 NY2d 122, 128-130 [1976]). Moreover, under the circumstances of this case, the search of the defendant’s vehicle did not exceed the scope of his consent when, while looking for a weapon, an officer searched a duffel bag located in the rear cargo area of the vehicle (see Florida v Jimeno, 500 US 248 [1991]). “The standard for measuring the scope of a suspect’s consent under the Fourth Amendment is that of ‘objective’ reasonableness—what would the typical reasonable person have understood by the exchange between the officer and the subject?” (Florida v Jimeno, supra at 251.) Here, it was objectively reasonable for the police to conclude that the defendant’s consent to search his vehicle included a search of any items where a weapon might be hidden, including the duffel bag in the rear cargo area of the vehicle (see People v Bruno, 294 AD2d 179, 179-180 [2002]; see also United States v Rich, 992 F2d 502, 506 [1993], cert denied 510 US 933 [1993]). Florio, J.E, Friedmann, H. Miller and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Reichbach, J.), rendered March 13, 2002, convicting him of robbery in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his guilt of robbery in the third degree is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Elmore, 269 AD2d 404 [2000]; People v Jackson, 211 AD2d 686 [1995]; see also People v Satloff, 56 NY2d 745 [1982]; People v Stahl, 53 NY2d 1048 [1981]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt (see People v West, 233 AD2d 277 [1996]; People v Rodriguez, 179 AD2d 554 [1992]; see also People v Montgomery, 116 AD2d 669 [1986]). Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]; People v Rayam, 94 NY2d 557 [2000]; People v West, supra; see also People v Goodfriend, 64 NY2d 695, 697 [1984]). Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the acquittal on one count did not undermine the weight and sufficiency of the evidence on the count of which the defendant was convicted (see People v Rayam, supra; People v West, supra). S. Miller, J.E, Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Latella, J.), rendered May 31, 2001, convicting him of attempted murder in the second degree, robbery in the first degree (two counts), assault in the first degree, and assault in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). Further, we are satisfied that the defendant received the effective assistance of counsel (see People v Benevento, 91 NY2d 708 [1998]). Under the circumstances of this case, the defendant was not deprived of his right to be present at a material stage of the trial (see People v Velasquez, 1 NY3d 44 [2003]; People v Sprowal, 84 NY2d 113 [1994]; People v Velasco, 77 NY2d 469 [1991]; People v Hizbullah, 273 AD2d 409 [2000]; People v Brown, 269 AD2d 539 [2000]). The defendant’s contention that a detective’s testimony violated his right to confront an unavailable witness is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Elliott, 256 AD2d 418 [1998]; People v White, 210 AD2d 271 [1994]). In any event, any error was harmless in light of the overwhelming evidence of guilt (see People v Crimmins, 36 NY2d 230 [1975]; People v Elliott, supra). Altman, J.P, Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Roman, J.), rendered February 27, 2001, convicting him of robbery in the first degree (two counts), robbery in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree (two counts), and criminal possession of stolen property in the fifth degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. During a break in voir dire, the defendant’s counsel, in the defendant’s absence, explained to the trial court that she had certain concerns about her ability to represent the defendant. However, the trial court refused to relieve her as counsel. Contrary to the contention of the defendant, who never expressed any dissatisfaction with his counsel (see People v Folk, 145 AD2d 505 [1988]; People v Brown, 143 AD2d 1026 [1988]), the trial court did not deprive him of his right to the effective assistance of counsel by failing to question him about the attorney-client relationship. The trial court providently exercised its discretion in granting the prosecutor’s application for a recess during the direct examination of the complaining witness (see People v Branch, 83 NY2d 663, 667 [1994]; People v Smith, 240 AD2d 949, 950 [1997]; People v Esquilin, 236 AD2d 231 [1997]). Furthermore, the trial court, after making a “reasonably thorough inquiry” into the matter (CPL 270.35 [2] [a]), providently exercised its discretion in discharging a sworn juror on the ground that she was unavailable for continued service (see CPL 270.35 [1]; People v Jackson, 240 AD2d 680, 681 [1997]; People v Hill, 182 AD2d 640 [1992]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Smith, J.P, S. Miller, Crane and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Gerges, J.), rendered July 2, 2002, convicting him of murder in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the People failed to disprove his alibi defense by legally sufficient evidence is unpreserved for appellate review (see People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10 [1995]). In any event, this contention is without merit. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The trial court properly selected two alternate jurors before selecting all 12 trial jurors, as the defendant, the defense counsel, and the prosecutor all consented to such procedure (see People v Blackmond, 212 AD2d 402 [1995]). Ritter, J.P, Smith, Goldstein and H. Miller, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County (Calabrese, J.), rendered April 9, 2002, convicting him of robbery in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant contends that the evidence was legally insufficient to support his conviction of robbery in the second degree because the People failed to establish his identity as the robber or his intent to commit robbery. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his intent to commit robbery is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Bynum, 70 NY2d 858 [1987]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s identity and intent to commit robbery beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the jury, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant’s contention that he was denied a fair trial by the admission of bolstering testimony of a police officer who described, on redirect examination, the complainant’s demeanor when he identified the defendant on the street, and by the prosecutor’s reference to this testimony on summation in violation of People v Trowbridge (305 NY 471 [1953]) is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05; People v West, 56 NY2d 662 [1982]; People v Alston, 163 AD2d 398 [1990]). In any event, this argument is without merit. The defense counsel opened the door to the issue of the complainant’s prior out-of-court identification of the defendant by bringing up the matter on cross-examination of the police officer who was present, thereby allowing the prosecutor to ask questions on the subject on redirect examination (see People v Melendez, 55 NY2d 445, 451-452 [1982]; People v Ocean, 292 AD2d 545 [2002]; People v Taylor, 142 AD2d 410, 421 [1988], affd 75 NY2d 277 [1990]). The defendant’s remaining contentions regarding bolstering and prosecutorial misconduct are, for the most part, also unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]), and, in any event, without merit or do not warrant reversal. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the County Court providently exercised its discretion in summarily denying, without a hearing, his motion pursuant to CPL 330.30 to set aside the verdict based on newly-discovered evidence, as the defendant failed to establish that the evidence could not have been discovered with due diligence, or that, if received, would have created a probability of a more favorable verdict (see People v Reddick, 293 AD2d 554 [2002]; People v Wells, 289 AD2d 599 [2001]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contention is without merit. Mc-Ginity, J.P, Luciano, Schmidt and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Flaherty, J.), rendered November 7, 2001, convicting him of attempted burglary in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s claims regarding the prosecutor’s alleged misconduct during his cross-examination of the defendant and his summation are largely unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Medina, 53 NY2d 951 [1981]; People v Scotti, 220 AD2d 543 [1995]; People v Rosario, 195 AD2d 577 [1993]). In any event, the trial court sustained the defense counsel’s objections to those comments that were improper, and gave curative instructions, which were not objected to. Altman, J.P, Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated March 10, 2003 (People v Lora, 303 AD2d 523 [2003], Iv denied 100 NY2d 540 [2003]), affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County, rendered September 5, 2001. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that she was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, EJ., Smith, Goldstein and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County (Calabrese, J.), rendered April 9, 2002, convicting him of robbery in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant contends that the evidence was legally insufficient to support his conviction of robbery in the second degree because the People failed to establish that he shared the intent of his codefendant and a third individual to commit robbery. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, resolution of issues of credibility, as well as the weight to be accorded the evidence presented, are primarily questions to be determined by the jury, which saw and heard the witnesses (see People v Gaimari, 176 NY 84, 94 [1903]). Upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant’s contention that he was denied a fair trial by the admission of bolstering testimony of a police officer who described, on redirect examination, the demeanors of the complainant and another witness when they identified the defendant on the street, and by the prosecutor’s reference to this testimony on summation in violation of People v Trowbridge (305 NY 471 [1953]) is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05; People v West, 56 NY2d 662 [1982]; People v Alston, 163 AD2d 398 [1990]). In any event, this contention is without merit. The defense counsel opened the door to the issue of the prior out-of-court identifications of the defendant by bringing up the matter on cross-examination of the police officer who was present, thereby allowing the prosecutor to ask questions on the subject on redirect examination (see People v Melendez, 55 NY2d 445, 451-452 [1982]; People v Ocean, 292 AD2d 545 [2002]; People v Taylor, 142 AD2d 410, 421 [1988], affd 75 NY2d 277 [1990]). The defendant’s present challenge to various remarks made by the prosecutor on summation is also unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]). In any event, the challenged remarks were either fair comment on the evidence, permissive rhetorical comment, responsive to the defense counsel’s summation (see People v Galloway, 54 NY2d 396, 399 [1981]; People v Ashwal, 39 NY2d 105 [1976]), or were not so prejudicial as to constitute reversible error in light of the overwhelming evidence of the defendant’s guilt (see People v Crimmins, 36 NY2d 230 [1975]). Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the County Court providently exercised its discretion in summarily denying, without a hearing, his motion pursuant to CPL 330.30 to set aside the verdict based on newly-discovered evidence, as the defendant failed to establish that the evidence could not have been discovered with due diligence, or that, if received, would have created a probability of a more favorable verdict (see People v Reddick, 293 AD2d 554 [2002]; People v Wells, 289 AD2d 599 [2001]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). McGinity, J.P., Luciano, Schmidt and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Starkey, J.), rendered November 27, 2001, convicting him of criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, he was not deprived of his right to be present at a particular sidebar conference, as the conference concerned purely legal matters (see People v DePallo, 96 NY2d 437 [2001]; People v Rodriguez, 85 NY2d 586, 590-591 [1995]; People v Polite, 291 AD2d 511 [2002]). The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his guilt of the crime of criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10 [1995]; People v Udzinski, 146 AD2d 245 [1989]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt (see Penal Law § 265.15 [4]; People v Topsy, 265 AD2d 353 [1999]; People v Steward, 213 AD2d 570 [1995]; People v Bumbury, 194 AD2d 735 [1993]; People v Gillespie, 168 AD2d 567 [1990]; People v Wooten, 149 AD2d 751 [1989]; People v Carrion, 136 AD2d 649 [1988]). Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]; People v Steward, supra). The defendant’s contention that the sentencing court improperly considered charges of which he was acquitted as a basis for imposing sentence is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Emmanus, 300 AD2d 504 [2002]), and, in any event, is without merit (see People v Robinson, 250 AD2d 629 [1998]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). S. Miller, J.P., Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Copertino, J.), rendered August 7, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the first degree (two counts) and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The Supreme Court properly exercised its discretion in denying the defendant’s motion to withdraw his plea of guilty (see CPL 220.60 [3]; People v Dickerson, 163 AD2d 610 [1990]). The defendant’s protestations of innocence and his assertion that he was denied effective assistance of counsel are belied by his responses at the plea allocution (see People v Charles, 256 AD2d 472 [1998]). The defendant’s contention that his plea of guilty should be vacated on the ground that the Supreme Court failed to advise him that he would be subject to an automatic and statutorily mandated five-year period of post-release supervision following the completion of his determinate sentence is unpreserved for appellate review, as the defendant did not seek to withdraw his plea on this ground before sentencing or move to vacate the judgment of conviction (see People v Curry, 301 AD2d 658 [2003]). Furthermore, we decline to reach the issue as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice. Finally, since the defendant pleaded guilty with the understanding that he would receive the sentence which was thereafter actually imposed, he has no basis to now complain that the sentence was excessive (see People v Kazepis, 101 AD2d 816 [1984]). Altman, J.P, S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated April 16, 1990 (People v Mullen, 160 AD2d 897 [1990]), affirming a judgment of the County Court, Dutchess County, rendered November 25, 1986. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes, 463 US 745 [1983]). Prudenti, EJ., Ritter, Santucci and S. Miller, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Demarest, J), rendered April 17, 2001, convicting him of assault in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitting into evidence a police detective’s testimony that the detective identified him as a suspect after the detective spoke with an individual who was not called as a witness. This claim is unpreserved for appellate review, and in any event, is without merit since the challenged statement did not implicate the defendant as the perpetrator of the crime (see People v McClane, 190 AD2d 868 [1993]; cf. People v Latta, 295 AD2d 449 [2002]; People v Martinez, 269 AD2d 608 [2000]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). S. Miller, J.P., Krausman, Townes and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Rosengarten, J.), rendered June 17, 2002, convicting him of criminal possession of stolen property in the fourth degree and unauthorized use of a vehicle in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his knowledge that the vehicle was stolen and, therefore, his guilt of the crime of criminal possession of stolen property in the fourth degree, is unpreserved for appellate review (see People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10 [1995]) and in any event, is without merit. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, inter alia, because the jury could reasonably infer that the defendant knew he was driving a stolen car (see People v Cintron, 95 NY2d 329, 332 [2000]; People v Ryan, 224 AD2d 644, 645 [1996]). Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). Santucci, J.P, Adams, Crane and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Mullen, J.), rendered March 12, 2002, convicting him of criminal possession of stolen property in the fifth degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). Santucci, J.P., Goldstein, Schmidt and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant, as limited by his brief, from a sentence of the County Court, Rockland County (Nelson, J.), imposed January 19, 2001, on the ground that the sentence was excessive. Ordered that the sentence is affirmed. Since the defendant pleaded guilty with the understanding that he would receive the sentence which was thereafter actually imposed, he has no basis to now complain that his sentence was excessive (see People v Williams, 306 AD2d 544 [2003]; People v Kazepis, 101 AD2d 816 [1984]). In any event, the sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). Santucci, J.E, McGinity, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Starkey, J.), rendered June 5, 2001, convicting him of manslaughter in the first degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s challenge to the legal sufficiency of the evidence is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10 [1995]; People v Udzinski, 146 AD2d 245 [1989]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The prosecutor had a good faith basis to cross-examine the defendant about his purported drug-selling activities (see People v Alamo, 23 NY2d 630, 634 [1969], cert denied 396 US 879 [1969]; People v Sealy, 167 AD2d 362, 363 [1990]). The defendant’s contention that the Supreme Court improperly considered a charge of which he was acquitted as a basis for imposing sentence is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Hurley, 75 NY2d 887 [1990]; People v Emmanus, 300 AD2d 504 [2002]), and in any event, is without merit (see People v Emmanus, supra; cf. People v Reeder, 298 AD2d 468 [2002]). The sentence imposed was not excessive (see People v Suitte, 90 AD2d 80 [1982]). The defendant’s remaining contention is without merit. Altman, J.E, Florio, Friedmann and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Application by the appellant for a writ of error coram nobis to vacate, on the ground of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, a decision and order of this Court dated May 28, 2002 (People v Potter, 294 AD2d 603 [2002]), affirming a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County, rendered April 24, 2001. Ordered that the application is denied. The appellant has failed to establish that he was denied the effective assistance of appellate counsel (see Jones v Barnes,463 US 745 [1983]). Ritter, J.P., Santucci, Adams and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Spires, J.), rendered November 20, 2001, convicting him of robbery in the third degree, assault in the second degree, and criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention on appeal, the Supreme Court’s Sandoval ruling (see People v Sandoval, 34 NY2d 371 [1974]) was a provident exercise of discretion. By limiting cross-examination to selected aspects of the defendant’s criminal record, the Supreme Court properly balanced the probative value of such evidence against its prejudicial effects (see People v Hayes, 97 NY2d 203, 208 [2002]; People v Pavao, 59 NY2d 282, 292 [1983]; People v Sandoval, supra at 378). The defendant’s argument that the Supreme Court’s Sandoval ruling deprived him of his constitutional rights has not been preserved for appellate review and we decline to reach it in the exercise of our interest of justice jurisdiction. Santucci, J.P., Adams, Crane and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County (Braslow, J.), rendered December 2, 2002, convicting him of promoting prostitution in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law and as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice, and a new trial is ordered. The County Court erred in permitting a detective to testify that during his investigation he discovered that the defendant had opened a checking account for a prostitute, since that testimony was hearsay admitted without any limiting instructions (see People v Huertas, 75 NY2d 487, 491-492 [1990]). The County Court also failed to specifically instruct the jury to ignore the prosecutor’s factually inaccurate statement during her summation that the prostitute had been arrested by the detective. This challenged remark exceeded the “broad bounds of rhetorical comment permissible in closing argument” (People v Galloway, 54 NY2d 396, 399 [1981]). Furthermore, the County Court should have granted the defendant’s request to charge the jury with respect to his contention that while he was in custody he never told his counsel, as two detectives testified that they had overheard, that he had a prostitution business (see People v Hardy, 124 AD2d 676, 677 [1986]). The cumulative effect of these errors denied the defendant his right to a fair trial and thus a new trial is warranted (see People v Vasquez, 120 AD2d 757 [1986]). We reject the People’s contention that these errors can be deemed harmless in light of the alleged overwhelming evidence of the defendant’s guilt (see People v Crimmins, 36 NY2d 230 [1975]). Santucci, J.P., Mc-Ginity, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County (Hudson, J.), rendered May 17, 2002, convicting him of attempted criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). Ritter, J.P., Smith, Friedmann, H. Miller and Crane, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Westchester County (Smith, J.), rendered March 20, 2001, convicting him of assault in the second degree, obstructing governmental administration in the second degree, and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fourth degree, after a nonjury trial, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to establish his guilt is unpreserved for appellate review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Bynum, 70 NY2d 858 [1987]; People v Fryar, 276 AD2d 641 [2000]). In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Moreover, upon the exercise of our factual review power, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt was not against the weight of the evidence (see CPL 470.15 [5]). The defendant’s remaining contentions, including those raised in his supplemental pro se brief, either are unpreserved for appellate review or without merit. Altman, J.P, Florio, Luciano and Rivera, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Dutchess County (Hayes, J.), rendered September 18, 2002, convicting him of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the fifth degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. We have reviewed the record and agree with the defendant’s assigned counsel that there are no nonfrivolous issues which could be raised on appeal. Counsel’s application for leave to withdraw as counsel is granted (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]; People v Paige, 54 AD2d 631 [1976]; cf. People v Gonzalez, 47 NY2d 606 [1979]). Altman, J.P, S. Miller, McGinity, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Suffolk County (Mullen, J.), rendered January 21, 1998, convicting him of murder in the first degree and murder in the second degree (three counts), upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law and as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice, by vacating the conviction of murder in the first degree, vacating the sentence imposed thereon, and remitting the matter to the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, for a new trial on that count; as so modified, the judgment is affirmed. We agree with the defendant that the trial court erred in its accomplice liability charge as it related to the first degree felony murder count. Penal Law § 125.27 (1) (a) (vii) provides that Penal Law § 20.00 is not applicable to first degree felony murder “unless the defendant’s criminal liability ... is based upon the defendant having commanded another person to cause the death of the victim or intended victim pursuant to section 20.00 of this chapter” (see People v Couser, 258 AD2d 74 [1999], affd 94 NY2d 631 [2000]). Here, the trial court only gave the Penal Law § 20.00 definition of accomplice liability without any adjustment for the first degree murder count. Accordingly, the possibility exists that the jury convicted the defendant of first degree murder without finding that he commanded another person to cause the death of the victim. Therefore, the defendant is entitled to a new trial on that count. However, the failure to properly instruct the jury with respect to the defendant’s accessorial liability does not affect the convictions of murder in the second degree (cf. People v Pons, 68 NY2d 264 [1986]; People v Almodovar, 62 NY2d 126 [1984]). Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620 [1983]), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Viewing the defense counsel’s conduct in its entirety, the defendant was not deprived of the effective assistance of counsel (see People v Rivera, 71 NY2d 705 [1988]; People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137 [1981]). The defendant’s remaining contentions are without merit. Santucci, J.P, McGinity, Schmidt and Adams, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Gary, J.), rendered July 2, 2002, convicting him of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the fifth degree, after a nonjury trial, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. The defendant’s contention that the trial court erred in admitting testimony that upon his arrest, the defendant was found to have $80 of “non-buy money” in his possession, is unpreserved for appellate review, as the defendant failed to object to this testimony at trial (see People v Miller, 126 AD2d 574 [1987]). In any event, in a nonjury trial, absent a showing of prejudice, the trial court is presumed, “by virtue of. . . learning and experience, to have considered only the competent evidence adduced in reaching [its] determination” (People v Latella, 112 AD2d 324 [1985]). There is nothing in the record to suggest that this presumption is inapplicable here. Moreover, even if the trial court had improperly considered such evidence, any resulting error was harmless under the circumstances of this case, where, inter alia, the eyewitness police testimony was strong and consistent, and prerecorded “buy” money was recovered from the defendant’s person (see e.g. People v Arthur, 186 AD2d 661 [1992]). There is no significant probability that but for this error the defendant would have been acquitted (see People v Alfonso, 270 AD2d 280 [2000]). S. Miller, J.R, Friedmann, Townes and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Kohm, J.), rendered August 1, 2000, convicting him of robbery in the first degree, robbery in the second degree (two counts), criminal possession of stolen property in the third degree, criminal possession of stolen property in the fourth degree, and unauthorized use of a vehicle in the third degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. Contrary to the defendant’s contention, he was not deprived of the effective assistance of counsel (see People v Benevento, 91 NY2d 708, 712 [1998]). In evaluating claims of ineffective assistance, the defense counsel’s efforts should not be second-guessed with hindsight (see People v Benevento, supra; People v Satterfield, 66 NY2d 796, 799 [1985]). Furthermore, “a reviewing court must avoid confusing true ineffectiveness with mere losing tactics” (People v Benevento, supra at 712 [internal quotation marks omitted]; see People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 146 [1981]). The defendant’s remaining contention is unpreserved for appellate review and, in any event, is without merit. Florio, J.E, Friedmann, H. Miller and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Roman, J.), rendered February 27, 2001, convicting him of robbery in the first degree (two counts), robbery in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree (two counts), and criminal possession of stolen property in the fifth degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed. After conducting “reasonably thorough” inquiries into each situation (CPL 270.35 [2] [a]), the trial court providently exercised its discretion in discharging two sworn jurors on the ground that they were unavailable for continued service (see CPL 270.35 [1]; People v Jeanty, 94 NY2d 507 [2000]; People v Merritt, 299 AD2d 370 [2002]; People v Bruno, 295 AD2d 228 [2002]; People v Jackson, 240 AD2d 680, 681 [1997]; People v Hill, 182 AD2d 640 [1992]). Contrary to the defendant’s contention, the Supreme Court did not impose an enhanced sentence for exercising his right to a trial (see People v Robinson, 287 AD2d 582 [2001]; People v Durkin, 132 AD2d 668, 669 [1987]). Smith, J.P., S. Miller, Crane and Cozier, JJ., concur.
Appeal by the defendant from an order of the County Court, Suffolk County (Braslow, J.), dated August 15, 2002, which granted the respondent’s motion to amend the trial transcript. Ordered that the appeal is dismissed, without costs or disbursements. No separate appeal lies from the County Court’s order correcting the trial minutes (see People v McGoldrick, 284 App Div 978 [1954]; CPL 450.10, 450.15). The appropriate remedy to review the order and amended transcript was to seek leave to serve a supplemental brief on the appeal of the conviction (see People v Wolz, 300 AD2d 606 [2002]), or move for leave to reargue (see CPL 470.50). Altman, J.P, Goldstein, Adams and Mastro, JJ., concur.
Peters, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Sullivan County (LaBuda, J.), rendered July 6, 1999, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of murder in the second degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree. Defendant was indicted for the crimes of murder in the second degree (two counts) and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree as a result of his fatal attack upon a patient at the Community General Hospital in Sullivan County. Prior to trial, County Court found that defendant was competent to stand trial and that all challenged statements were admissible. At trial, the jury rejected defendant’s affirmative defense of lack of responsibility by reason of mental disease or defect. Upon his conviction of one count of murder and one count of criminal possession of a weapon, defendant was sentenced to an indeterminate prison term of 25 years to life and a determinate term of seven years, respectively, with such sentences to run consecutively. Upon appeal, defendant contends that the indictment charging murder in the second degree (Penal Law § 125.25) is defective because it failed to allege that he intentionally caused the death of the person intended “or of a third person” —an exception which should have been specifically pleaded as inapplicable if it was to survive a jurisdictional challenge. We disagree. The last phrase is not an “exception” set forth within the statute defining the offense (compare People v Peraza, 288 AD2d 689, 692 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 707 [2002]; People v Kirby, 280 AD2d 775, 780 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 920 [2001]; People v Hogabone, 278 AD2d 525, 525-526 [2000]). As such, no jurisdictional defect is caused by its omission. Next addressing County Court’s refusal to suppress numerous inculpatory statements that defendant made while he was sedated and restrained, we find that although he was in custody, his disclosures to police authorities were spontaneous and not the result of police questioning or conduct “which should reasonably have been anticipated to evoke a declaration from the defendant” (People v Lynes, 49 NY2d 286, 295 [1980]). Defendant’s subsequent disclosure to Don Starner, a detective, yields no different result. When Starner encountered defendant in custody, Starner merely inquired, “how are you?” When defendant replied, “I’m fine, I just killed a man,” Starner was taken aback. Responding with “excuse me,” defendant countered with “yeah, I just killed a man, I beat him over the head with a fire extinguisher because he was white.” Finding that Starner’s communications were not intended or anticipated to evoke inculpatory declarations, we reiterate the established principle that the police are “not required to silence [a] chatterbox” (People v Sturdivant, 277 AD2d 607, 608 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 970 [2000]; see People v Snide, 256 AD2d 812, 814 [1998]). Next reviewing the inculpatory statements made to Anthony Suarez, a lieutenant, after defendant received his Miranda warnings and executed a written waiver, we find the record clear that defendant admitted, in response to questioning, that he intended to kill the victim by hitting him with a fire extinguisher so that he would be moved to another location. As these statements were made voluntarily and not in violation of any constitutional rights, no error is discerned. Finally reviewing the sentences imposed, the People concede that they should be modified to run concurrently since the underlying convictions arose out of a single act (see People v Sturkey, 77 NY2d 979, 980-981 [1991]; People v Pena, 259 AD2d 394, 395 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 1005 [1999]). As to their length, we find them to fall within a legally permissible range (see People v Krzykowski, 293 AD2d 877, 880 [2002]). With the absence of an abuse of discretion by the sentencing court, we further conclude that in light of the brutal, unprovoked and senseless nature of the crime, there are no extraordinary circumstances warranting a modification in the interest of justice (see People v Robinson, 262 AD2d 795 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 1045 [1999]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Carpinello and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, by directing that the prison sentences imposed on defendant be served concurrently rather than consecutively, and, as so modified, affirmed. The indictment charged that defendant “with intent to cause the death of another person did cause the death of such person.”
Carpinello, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Broome County (Mathews, J.), rendered April 17, 2000, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of burglary in the first degree and murder in the second degree. Defendant’s conviction arises from his participation in the April 21, 1999 armed robbery and murder of Luke Spencer in the City of Binghamton, Broome County. After planning the robbery, defendant, Hashim Herring and Rome Kendrick drove to Spencer’s home in a car driven by Anita Garrison. Once there, Herring removed a gun from the trunk of the car, and defendant and Kendrick proceeded to break in through the front door while Herring broke in from the rear. Herring demanded money from Spencer and others in the home and then shot and killed him when he refused to comply. The foursome then fled the scene. A police investigation led to the arrest of defendant, who waived his Miranda rights and gave oral and written statements admitting his participation in the robbery and shooting. A grand jury returned an indictment charging him as an accomplice in the crimes of murder in the second degree, robbery in the first degree and burglary in the first degree. It also charged Herring with, inter alia, the crime of murder in the first degree. The cases against defendant and Herring were severed and, at trial, Kendrick and Garrison testified regarding defendant’s involvement in the crime. At the conclusion of the trial, a jury returned a verdict convicting defendant of the burglary and felony murder charges, and he was sentenced to an indeterminate prison term of 18 years to life on the murder conviction, with a lesser determinate sentencé on the remaining conviction. Defendant appeals, and we affirm. First, we reject defendant’s claim that his statements should have been suppressed because he was represented by counsel on other unrelated charges and, thus, could not make a valid waiver of his right to counsel outside the presence of counsel. To be sure, the People conceded at a Huntley hearing that they were on notice that the Broome County Public Defender’s office represented defendant on other pending charges and had requested that defendant not be questioned on any matter without its involvement. However, a suspect under interrogation does not have a derivative right to counsel based upon representation on prior, totally unrelated charges and, thus, can validly waive the right to counsel outside the presence of counsel (see People v Steward, 88 NY2d 496, 501-502 [1996]; People v Bing, 76 NY2d 331 [1990]; People v Kent, 240 AD2d 772, 773 [1997], lv denied 90 NY2d 1012 [1997]; compare People v Cohen, 90 NY2d 632, 638-639 [1997]). Inasmuch as defendant was fully apprised of and voluntarily waived his right to counsel, his motion to suppress his statements was properly denied. We also reject defendant’s claim that he was denied his right to be present at sidebar conferences during jury, selection. The record clearly reflects that defendant was informed of his right to be present at all such conferences and defense counsel affirmatively waived that right in open court in defendant’s presence. Further, defendant failed to object to his absence at any sidebar colloquies (see People v Keen, 94 NY2d 533, 538-539 [2000]; People v Harris, 304 AD2d 848, 850 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 582 [2003]). Next, we conclude that the accomplice testimony of Kendrick and Garrison was sufficiently corroborated by defendant’s written statement admitting his involvement, the testimony of witnesses who saw defendant with his accomplices just before the crimes occurred and the testimony of other witnesses who were present in the home and confirmed details of the crime (see CPL 60.22 [1]; see also People v Breland, 83 NY2d 286, 292-294 [1994]; People v Elhadi, 304 AD2d 982, 983 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 580 [2003]). Lastly, we find no error in County Court’s refusal to charge the jury with the statutory affirmative defense to felony murder (see Penal Law § 125.25 [3]). Defendant admitted that he was aware that Herring had a gun. In addition, Garrison testified that she clearly saw Herring carrying a gun as he, defendant and Kendrick approached Spencer’s residence. Thus, we see “[n]o reasonable view of the evidence” that would have permitted a jury to find that defendant was unaware that Herring was armed (People v Robinson, 249 AD2d 333, 334 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 904 [1998]; see People v Lapan, 289 AD2d 698, 701 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 756 [2002]). Mercure, J.P., Spain, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Spain, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Tompkins County (Barrett, J.), rendered May 12, 2000, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree (three counts), criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh degree and criminally using drug paraphernalia in the second degree (two counts). In an October 1999 report to police, a confidential informant (hereinafter Cl) described a large African American male who was selling crack cocaine out of a particular apartment in the City of Ithaca, Tompkins County. The Cl, wearing a hidden transmitter, subsequently engaged in a controlled buy by approaching the apartment window, speaking to defendant, entering the building and purchasing cocaine directly from defendant. During the transaction, the police heard the Cl and another male arrange for the Cl to purchase eightballs of cocaine from the other male the following Friday night. The Cl then returned to the nearby police vehicle, recounted the transaction and handed over the small amount of unpackaged crack cocaine which he had purchased. During their surveillance of the apartment the same evening, the police observed several other individuals approach the apartment window and engage in some sort of exchange with defendant, who fit the description given by the CL Based upon the foregoing and prior complaints about drug activity at the apartment, the police obtained a no-knock warrant to search the apartment, which could be executed at any time, day or night. Upon execution of the warrant, police discovered a large amount of cash and cocaine in the apartment and arrested defendant, found hiding in a bedroom closet. The female tenant named in the lease was also present; her daughter resided in the apartment as well but was not at home. Following a jury trial, defendant was convicted as charged, and now appeals. We affirm. Initially, defendant contends that the warrant was not supported by sufficient evidence to demonstrate probable cause, specifically, that the warrant application did not demonstrate that the Cl was reliable or the basis for his knowledge, lacking any information concerning past reliability. Before information obtained from a Cl may be used as evidence supporting a search warrant, “it must be shown that the informant has some ‘basis of knowledge’ from which he could properly conclude that the subject of the tip was indeed involved in illegal activity and that the informant himself is reliable” (People v Rodriguez, 52 NY2d 483, 488-489 [1981], quoting Aguilar v Texas, 378 US 108, 114 [1964]). Notably, a history of providing accurate information is not the only way to establish reliability; indeed, reliability may be demonstrated “where details of [the Cl’s] story have been confirmed by police observation” (People v Rodriguez, supra at 489). Here, the corroborating observations of the police, the evidence obtained during the controlled buy, and the affidavit of a neighbor, who previously reported suspicious activity at the apartment, are sufficient to establish the Cl’s reliability, as well as the basis of his knowledge (see People v Lee, 303 AD2d 839, 840 [2003]; People v Tarver, 292 AD2d 110, 116 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 702 [2002]). Further, we agree with County Court that the warrant was otherwise valid and not overbroad. “Where, as here, there is probable cause to believe that a particular location contains saleable quantities of a controlled substance, which could be quickly destroyed, an all-hours, no-knock search warrant is justified” (People v Bell, 299 AD2d 582, 584 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 555 [2002] [citations omitted]; see People v Ackerman, 237 AD2d 849, 850-851 [1997], lv denied 89 NY2d 1087 [1997]). Next, defendant challenges County Court’s denial of his request for a missing witness charge. The court found the charge unwarranted because the uncalled witnesses—the female residents of the apartment—were unavailable. “An accomplice (whether charged as such or not) who can be expected to invoke a privilege would ... be unavailable” (People v Savinon, 100 NY2d 192, 198 [2003] [footnote omitted]; see People v Macana, 84 NY2d 173, 177-178 [1994]). At the time of defendant’s trial, both of the uncalled witnesses were charged with related crimes of criminal facilitation based on their shared occupancy of the apartment and, thus, were likely to invoke the 5th Amendment. Accordingly, County Court’s refusal to give a missing witness charge was appropriate. Defendant’s legal sufficiency claim is incorrectly premised upon the heightened “moral certainty” standard appropriate for cases based upon circumstantial evidence, which is reserved exclusively for the trier of fact (see People v Hines, 97 NY2d 56, 62 [2001]). The appropriate question on appellate review is whether the evidence before the jury, viewed in the light most favorable to the People, could lead a rational trier of fact to conclude that the elements of the crime had been proven beyond a reasonable doubt (see People v Rossey, 89 NY2d 970, 971 [1997]; People v Cabey, 85 NY2d 417, 420-421 [1995]). Testimony was presented at trial that, during the 70 minutes immediately preceding execution of the search warrant, the police observed a man matching defendant’s description make exchanges with six individuals at the window of the apartment’s northwest bedroom. Upon entering, police found defendant hiding in the closet of the same bedroom, which contained personal items apparently belonging to the younger tenant, as well as some male clothing. Defendant was the only male present in the apartment and he was further connected to the northwest bedroom — where the bulk of narcotics and cash were found — by, among other things, identification bearing his name in a wallet found in a basket by the bed, bills addressed to him at the apartment found on a bureau and the testimony of a neighbor who witnessed defendant making frequent exchanges with people through the bedroom window. We hold this evidence legally sufficient to support the jury’s verdict (see People v Manini, 79 NY2d 561, 573 [1992]; People v Tarver, supra at 113-114). Finally, we find that defendant was properly sentenced as a second felony offender without a hearing. Defendant does not dispute having two prior convictions within the 10-year statutory period (see Penal Law § 70.06 [1] [b] [iv]), but argues that his challenge at sentencing to the constitutionality of those predicate convictions entitled him to a hearing before those convictions could be used as predicate felonies for enhanced sentencing purposes (see CPL 400.21 [7] [b]; People v Zeoli, 212 AD2d 935, 935 [1995], lv denied 85 NY2d 916 [1995]). As the People correctly point out, defendant was sentenced as a second felony offender for his second predicate, i.e., the 1995 conviction, based upon his earlier 1990 felony. The validity of the 1990 conviction thus established, it is now binding in this subsequent proceeding and not subject to constitutional challenge (see CPL 400.21 [8]; People v Loughlin, 66 NY2d 633, 635-636 [1985]; People v Jones, 213 AD2d 801, 803 [1995], lv denied 85 NY2d 975 [1995]; People v Early, 173 AD2d 884, 886 [1991], lv denied 79 NY2d 1000 [1992]). We have considered defendant’s remaining contentions and find they lack merit. Crew III, J.P, Carpinello, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Madison County (Humphreys, J.), rendered May 16, 2000, which revoked defendant’s probation and imposed a sentence of imprisonment. Defendant pleaded guilty to the crime of rape in the second degree and was sentenced to six months in jail and five years’ probation. Three months into his probation, he admitted to violating the terms of his probation and was reinstated to probation. Thereafter, a second violation of probation petition was filed against defendant. Following a hearing, he was found to have violated the terms of his probation and County Court resentenced him to a prison term of 2 to 6 years. Defendant challenges the sentence as harsh and excessive. Our review of the record reveals no abuse of discretion on the part of the court nor do we find extraordinary circumstances warranting a reduction of the sentence in the interest of justice (see People v Corpin, 269 AD2d 622 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 795 [2000]). Cardona, P.J., Peters, Spain, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Kane, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Clinton County (Ryan, J.), rendered May 22, 2001, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crimes of criminal contempt in the first degree and criminal mischief in the fourth degree. In satisfaction of a six-count indictment, defendant pleaded guilty to one felony and one misdemeanor, with a recommendation of the minimum sentence on the felony and a concurrent sentence for the misdemeanor. Defendant then moved to withdraw his plea alleging that he was intoxicated and “not in his right mind” when the plea was made, and that he was innocent. County Court denied the motion and sentenced defendant as a second felony offender to the agreed-upon disposition of an indeterminate term of IV2 to 3 years’ imprisonment for criminal contempt in the first degree and a concurrent determinate term of one year for criminal mischief in the fourth degree. County Court did not abuse its discretion in denying defendant’s motion to withdraw his guilty plea. The determination of whether to allow withdrawal of a guilty plea rests with the sound discretion of County Court and generally can be made without a hearing (see People v Babcock, 304 AD2d 912, 912 [2003]; People v Davis, 250 AD2d 939, 940 [1998]). The conclusory assertions in defendant’s motion papers had no record support and were contradicted by his own sworn plea allocution (compare People v Babcock, supra at 912). The motion papers failed to include an affidavit from the deputy sheriff who allegedly noted signs of intoxication on the day of the plea, or an affidavit from defendant himself stating that he was intoxicated and explaining his negative answer to the court’s question regarding his ingestion of drugs or alcohol. In light of this lack of proof, together with defense counsel’s statement that she did not detect alcohol and the court’s observations of defendant during the allocution, it was not an abuse of discretion to deny the motion without a hearing. Defendant next argues that counsel was ineffective by failing to move for dismissal on speedy trial grounds pursuant to CPL 30.30. Failure to raise a meritorious statutory speedy trial claim “is sufficiently egregious to constitute a denial of meaningful representation” (People v White, 229 AD2d 610, 610 [1996]; see People v Johnson, 288 AD2d 501, 502 [2001]). Ordinarily, an ineffective assistance claim must be preserved by a motion to withdraw the plea or vacate the judgment on that ground (see People v Clifford, 295 AD2d 697, 698 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 709 [2002]). In prior cases where a defendant for the first time on direct appeal raised the ground of ineffective assistance of counsel for failure to make a speedy trial motion, this Court held the appeal in abeyance and remitted to the trial court for a hearing on the issue (see People v Grey, 257 AD2d 685, 687 [1999]; People v Pickens, 216 AD2d 631, 632 [1995]; see also People v Johnson, supra at 502 [issue raised on direct appeal and in improperly denied CPL article 440 motion]). However, speedy trial or ineffective assistance of counsel claims based on matters outside the record are best reviewable by way of a CPL article 440 motion, which can be used to develop a record focused on those issues (see People v Brown, 45 NY2d 852 [1978]; People v Wooten, 283 AD2d 931, 933 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 943 [2001]; People v Colon, 138 AD2d 392, 393 [1988], lv denied 72 NY2d 956 [1988]). The record before this Court is inadequate to make a determination of defendant’s ineffective assistance claim because of counsel’s failure to make a speedy trial motion. Where, as here, no pretrial motion or motion to withdraw the plea or to vacate the conviction has been made to the trial court, this issue is properly raised through a CPL article 440 motion, not on direct appeal (see People v Carroll, 299 AD2d 572 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 626 [2003]; People v Garcia, 187 AD2d 868, 868 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 885 [1993]). Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Carpinello and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Crew III, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Chemung County (Hayden, J.), rendered February 22, 2002, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of attempted assault in the second degree and promoting prison contraband in the first degree (two counts). Defendant was indicted and charged with attempted assault in the second degree and promoting prison contraband in the first degree for stabbing a correction officer with a shank at the Southport Correctional Facility in Chemung County. Following a jury trial, defendant was convicted as charged and sentenced to, inter alia, an indeterminate prison term of 3V2 to 7 years. Defendant appeals and we affirm. Defendant’s principal contention on appeal is that County Court erred in finding that he was competent to stand trial. We disagree. The record reflects that pursuant to court order, defendant was examined by two psychiatrists, both of whom were of the opinion that defendant was competent to stand trial. Moreover, County Court noted defendant’s coherence and awareness during his various appearances and, accordingly, adjudged defendant competent to stand trial. It is to be noted that great deference should be accorded to those findings (see People v Orama, 150 AD2d 505, 506 [1989], lv denied 74 NY2d 744 [1989]). Much is made of the fact that defendant gave short and, indeed, evasive answers during his psychiatric evaluation and was generally uncooperative. We need only note that a determination of competency is based upon a defendant’s ability, not willingness, to assist his or her attorney (see People v McMillan, 212 AD2d 445, 446 [1995], lv denied 85 NY2d 976 [1995]; People v Orama, supra at 506). We have considered defendant’s remaining arguments contained in his pro se submission and find them equally without merit. Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Peters and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of St. Lawrence County (Nicandri, J.), rendered May 6, 2002, which revoked defendant’s interim probation and imposed a sentence of imprisonment. On August 16, 2001, defendant pleaded guilty to the crimes of rape in the third degree (two counts), sodomy in the third degree (two counts) and incest, in full satisfaction of a 50-count indictment. Under the terms of the plea agreement, defendant was to be sentenced to a one-year period of interim probation which, if successfully completed, would be followed by a sentence of no greater than six months’ incarceration and 10 years’ probation. Defendant waived his right to appeal, specifically waiving any challenge to the imposition of 10 years’ probation. As part of these conditions, defendant was subject to 180 days of electronic home monitoring and was prohibited from the use of any illicit substance. Mandatory testing was ordered to monitor this condition. The probation department filed a petition which charged defendant with violating the home monitoring and use of illicit substance conditions. County Court conducted a hearing and determined that a preponderance of the evidence showed that defendant violated a condition by testing positive for the use of marihuana and cocaine. Although it is less clear whether County Court found defendant violated the terms of his home monitoring, the court’s overall statement indicates that a violation was not found. Defendant was resentenced to concurrent prison terms of V-fe to 4 years for one count of rape in the third degree, one count of sodomy in the third degree and incest; defendant was also sentenced to concurrent prison terms of 1 to 4 years for the second count of rape in the third degree and the second count of sodomy in the third degree, with these latter sentences to run consecutively to the former. Defendant appeals. With respect to the violation of consumption of illicit substances, defendant contends that the results of the test should not have been admitted into evidence, since there was no proper evidentiary foundation regarding the nature of the test, the competency of the probation officer to administer the test or read the test results, nor proof of the acceptance by the scientific community that the test is reliable. We find these contentions to be meritless. First, the testimony of the probation officer adequately establishes his training and experience with respect to the administration of the drug test and his observance of proper testing procedures. Second, in circumstances where the drug detection test has gained general judicial acceptance, neither expert testimony nor detailed findings by the scientific community are necessary as part of the foundation for the admissibility of the drug test results (see Matter of Lahey v Kelly, 71 NY2d 135, 144 [1987]). Since the drug test (EMIT) employed by the probation officer has been generally recognized as scientifically reliable and is accepted by the courts of this state, no scientific proof as to the reliability of such test is necessary (see id. at 144). Moreover, CPL 410.70 outlines the nature and procedure of violation hearings and, therefore, defendant’s contention that this Court should adopt the more stringent standards and procedures used in prison disciplinary proceedings is without merit. Next, we find no merit to defendant’s present argument that the indeterminate prison sentence of 1 to 4 years imposed on the conviction for rape in the third degree and sodomy in the third degree, both class E felonies, is improper. Except for a conviction for a class B felony under Penal Law § 220.44 (2), the minimum sentence for a felony shall be not less than one year nor more than one third of the maximum term imposed (see Penal Law § 70.00 [3] [b]). Since the maximum term of imprisonment on a class E felony is four years (see Penal Law § 70.00 [2] [e]), the minimum sentence imposed by County Court is proper. Finally, defendant correctly maintains that the portion of the original plea bargain which included a 10-year period of probation was unauthorized at the time. However, the original sentence was properly revoked by County Court, rendering this issue moot. Cardona, PJ., Crew III, Peters and Carpinello, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Cardona, PJ. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Sullivan County (LaBuda, J), rendered June 17, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crimes of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree and criminal sale of a controlled substance in the fifth degree. Defendant was charged in an 11-count indictment with various drug-related crimes after police recovered drug paraphernalia, a firearm and a quantity of cocaine in a bungalow in the Town of Fallsburg, Sullivan County. Two of defendant’s brothers were also charged with drug-related crimes and the District Attorney made a collective plea offer. Pursuant to the offer, defendant pleaded guilty to criminal possession of a controlled substance in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree and criminal sale of a controlled substance in the fifth degree in full satisfaction of the indictment with the understanding that he would be sentenced, as a second felony offender, to an aggregate term of 10 years to life in prison. At sentencing, defendant moved to withdraw his plea, claiming that he was innocent and was coerced into accepting the plea offer by virtue of its collective nature. County Court denied the motion without a hearing and sentenced defendant in accordance with the agreement, prompting this appeal. “The decision whether to permit a defendant to withdraw a guilty plea rests within the discretion of the trial court, ‘and only in rare instances will a hearing be granted’ ” (People v Bolden, 289 AD2d 607, 608 [2001], lv denied 98 NY2d 649 [2002] , quoting People v Yell, 250 AD2d 869, 869 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 863 [1998]; see CPL 220.60 [3]; People v Totman, 269 AD2d 617, 618 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 839 [2000]). “Generally, a guilty plea may not be withdrawn absent some evidence or claim of innocence, fraud or mistake in its inducement” (People v Davis, 250 AD2d 939, 940 [1998] [citation omitted]; see People v McDonnell, 302 AD2d 619, 620 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 540 [2003]). Here, defendant did not protest his innocence during the plea allocution. To the contrary, he admitted that he possessed both the gun and cocaine weighing in excess of four ounces and also that he sold a quantity of cocaine (see People v Davis, supra at 940). In addition, he informed County Court that he understood he did not have to plead guilty and was satisfied with his attorney’s advice regarding the plea. At no point did he state that he felt pressured into accepting the plea due to the collective nature of the plea offer. In sum, there is nothing in the record to indicate that County Court abused its discretion in denying defendant’s motion without a hearing (see People v Robinson, 301 AD2d 745, 747 [2003] , lv denied 100 NY2d 542 [2003]; People v Davis, supra). Mercure, Carpinello, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Cardona, P J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Warren County (Austin, J.), rendered May 22, 2003, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of robbery in the second degree. Defendant and three accomplices were arrested in connection with the robbery of a general store. Thereafter, in full satisfaction of a two-count indictment, defendant pleaded guilty to the crime of robbery in the second degree. In the course of his allocution, defendant admitted that he and two of his codefendants entered the store with the purpose of robbing it. The codefendants went behind the store counter while defendant proceeded to steal cigarettes. The record indicates that the two codefendants restrained the store clerk with duct tape and stole currency and other merchandise. Defendant waived his right to appeal and was sentenced to an agreed-upon determinate prison term of six years, to be followed by a three-year period of postrelease supervision. On appeal, defendant contends that his guilty plea was insufficient as a matter of law since his plea allocution lacked a factual basis to support the forcible stealing element of robbery in the second degree (see Penal Law § 160.10 [1]). Defendant’s challenge to the sufficiency of the plea allocution is unpreserved for our review given his failure to move to withdraw his plea or vacate the judgment of conviction (see People v Lopez, 71 NY2d 662, 665 [1988]; People v Ramsey, 280 AD2d 781, 781 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 805 [2001]). Contrary to defendant’s argument, the narrow exception to the preservation rule applies only “where the defendant’s recitation of the facts underlying the crime . . . casts significant doubt upon the defendant’s guilt” (People v Lopez, supra at 666), and not where, as here, “ ‘the sufficiency of the articulation of the element is challenged’ ” (People v Ward, 282 AD2d 871, 872 [2001], quoting People v Vonderchek, 245 AD2d 979, 980 [1997], lv denied 91 NY2d 945 [1998]). In any event, even addressing the merits of defendant’s claim, our review of the plea allocution minutes establishes that all of the elements of the crime of robbery in the second degree (see Penal Law §§ 20.00, 160.10 [1]) are “ ‘readily inferable’ from [defendant’s] statements regarding the circumstances of the crime. Thus the court was not required to make further inquiry before accepting the plea” (People v McGowen, 42 NY2d 905, 906 [1977] [citation omitted]). Moreover, since the record reveals that County Court adequately explained the rights being surrendered by pleading guilty and defendant acknowledged his understanding of same, the record does not support an argument that his guilty plea was not knowingly, voluntarily and intelligently made (see People v Ramsey, supra at 781-782). Crew III, Mugglin, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Rose, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Saratoga County (Scarano, Jr., J.), rendered July 1, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crimes of attempted burglary in the second degree and attempted burglary in the third degree. Pursuant to a plea agreement, defendant pleaded guilty to the crimes of attempted burglary in the second and third degrees, agreeing to cooperate in the prosecution of his codefendant and waiving his right to appeal. He was then sentenced to concurrent prison terms of two years and one year, respectively, to be followed by a lVa-year period of postrelease supervision. This sentence was to run concurrently with a prison sentence that had been imposed less than a week earlier by the County Court of Albany County. Defendant appeals, contending that County Court erred by accepting his plea without eliciting a full recitation of all of the elements of the crimes to which he was pleading guilty. A defendant’s “failure to move either to withdraw the plea or to vacate the judgment of conviction generally precludes review of his challenge to the factual sufficiency of the plea allocution” (People v Kemp, 288 AD2d 635, 635 [2001]). A narrow exception to this rule arises when the defendant has made statements in the course of the plea colloquy that are inconsistent with his guilt, negate an essential element of the crime or crimes or call into question the voluntariness of his plea (see People v Lopez, 71 NY2d 662, 665-666 [1988]). Defendant made no statements that would give rise to such inferences here. It is, in addition, well settled that “where a defendant pleads guilty to a lesser crime than that charged in the indictment, a factual basis for such plea is not necessary” (.People v Santmyer, 283 AD2d 718, 718 [2001]). As defendant was indicted on charges of burglary in the second and third degrees but was allowed to plead guilty to the crimes of attempted burglary in the second and third degrees, County Court was not required to obtain a factual basis for his plea (see People v Moore, 71 NY2d 1002, 1006 [1988]). Cardona, EJ., Mercure, Carpinello and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Schenectady County (Eidens, J.), rendered November 22, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of attempted criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree. Defense counsel seeks to be relieved of his assignment as counsel for defendant on the ground that there are no nonfrivolous issues that can be raised on appeal. Upon our review of the record, defendant’s pro se submission and defense counsel’s brief, we agree. Defendant entered a knowing, voluntary and intelligent plea of guilty to the crime of attempted criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and was sentenced as a second felony offender in accordance with the negotiated plea agreement to a prison term of 4 to 8 years. The judgment is, accordingly, affirmed and defense counsel’s application for leave to withdraw is granted (see People v Cruwys, 113 AD2d 979 [1985], lv denied 67 NY2d 650 [1986]; see generally People v Stokes, 95 NY2d 633 [2001]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Peters, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, and application to be relieved of assignment granted.
Rose, J. Appeal from an order of the County Court of Broome County (Smith, J.), entered October 16, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the indictment. Defendant was indicted on charges of grand larceny in the third degree and multiple counts of offering a false instrument for filing in the first degree as a result of having cashed and retained the proceeds of 11 workers’ compensation checks mistakenly issued to him after he returned to work and he was no longer entitled to receive them. Defendant moved for dismissal of the indictment for lack of criminal jurisdiction on the grounds that none of the relevant conduct occurred in Broome County and the issuer of the checks, Utica National Insurance Group, is located outside Broome County. Finding the evidence presented to the grand jury insufficient to demonstrate that defendant’s conduct had, and was intended to have, a “particular effect” upon Broome County (CPL 20.40 [2] [c]), County Court dismissed the indictment. The People appeal. The relevant portion of CPL 20.40 (2), the “injured forum” section, confers jurisdiction to a county’s courts when the offending conduct “had, or was likely to have, a particular effect upon such county . . ., and was performed with intent that it would, or with knowledge that it was likely to, have such particular effect therein” (CPL 20.40 [2] [c]). Such conduct has a “particular effect” when it “produces consequences which . . . have a materially harmful impact upon the governmental processes or community welfare of a particular jurisdiction” (CPL 20.10 [4]). While conceding that the grand jury evidence did not establish that any of the conduct constituting the elements of the charged crimes occurred in Broome County, the People contend that there is a jurisdictional basis for defendant’s prosecution there because he had been receiving workers’ compensation benefits as an injured employee of Broome County. Although the People now assert that Broome County was self-insured as to workers’ compensation claims and either provided the funds or reimbursed Utica National for the checks cashed by defendant, the only evidence presented to the grand jury on this point was the testimony of the County’s workers’ compensation analyst. When asked in a general way whether Broome County provides the funds for checks issued by Utica National as Broome County’s administrator, the analyst testified, “Yes. It’s funded. We reimburse—we have a fund, they take it out of an account that they set up.” In all other instances when the source of the checks or the funds received by defendant was testified to, the reference was to Utica National or the “insurance company.” Aside from the analyst’s ambiguous statement, there is no grand jury evidence that Broome County ever reimbursed Utica National or suffered any actual loss of funds due to defendant’s conduct. More significantly, while there is evidence that defendant cashed Utica National’s checks with the intent to defraud Utica National, there is no indication whatsoever that he knew or had reason to know that Broome County was self-insured or otherwise provided the funds paid to him by Utica National. Since the undisputed evidence is that defendant informed Broome County of the termination of his workers’ compensation disability and Broome County then notified Utica National, there is no basis to conclude either that defendant intended to harm the County or that the County was liable for the funds paid out in error by Utica National. Accordingly, the People failed to prove any “facts and circumstances” from which jurisdiction could be “fairly and reasonably inferred” (Matter of Steingut v Gold, 42 NY2d 311, 316 [1977]; see People v Fea, 47 NY2d 70, 77-78 [1979]), and County Court properly dismissed the indictment for lack of jurisdiction. Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Carpinello and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed.
Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Chemung County (Castellino, J.), rendered November 27, 1996, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of robbery in the second degree. Defendant pleaded guilty to the crime of robbery in the second degree and was sentenced as a second violent felony offender in accordance with the plea agreement to a prison term of seven years. Defense counsel seeks to be relieved of her assignment as counsel for defendant on the ground that there are no nonfrivolous issues that can be raised on appeal. Upon our review of the record and defense counsel’s brief, we agree. The judgment is, therefore, affirmed and defense counsel’s application for leave to withdraw is granted (see People v Cruwys, 113 AD2d 979 [1985], lv denied 67 NY2d 650 [1986]; see generally People v Stokes, 95 NY2d 633 [2001]). Crew III, J.E, Carpinello, Mugglin, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, and application to be relieved of assignment granted.
Mercure, J.E Appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims (Read, EJ.), entered October 17, 2001, which, inter alia, granted defendants’ cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the claim. Claimant pleaded guilty to criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree and was sentenced to 2V2 to 5 years to be served under parole supervision pursuant to CPL 410.91. He was received at the Department of Correctional Services’ reception center on May 12, 1999, and was transferred to the Willard Drug Treatment Center on June 1, 1999. On August 2, 1999, prior to his original release date, defendant Division of Parole imposed a special condition requiring claimant to reenter the program for 30 days. He consented to this condition and to the extension of his release date to October 5, 1999. On August 26, 1999, however, claimant violated the terms of his parole by not participating in the program and was removed from Willard. Thereafter, claimant filed a claim alleging false imprisonment. Specifically, claimant asserted that he was illegally detained at the reception center for more than 10 days in violation of GPL 410.91 and that, as a result, his release date at Willard was improperly extended from August 20, 1999 to September 7, 1999. Following service of defendants’ answer, claimant moved to strike the affirmative defenses. Defendants, in turn, cross-moved for summary judgment dismissing the claim on the basis that claimant had caused the release date to be extended by his own conduct. The Court of Claims, among other things, granted defendants’ cross motion and dismissed the claim. This appeal ensued. CPL 410.91 (1) provides that where a court imposes a sentence of parole supervision, it shall remand the defendant to a reception center operated by the Department of Correctional Services for a period not to exceed 10 days, after which time the defendant shall be transferred to a drug treatment campus. It is undisputed that claimant was held at the reception center for more than 10 days. However, there is nothing in the record to substantiate his claim that this caused him to be held at Willard beyond his original release date. To the contrary, the proof establishes that claimant did not participate in the program and, for that reason, a special condition was imposed requiring him to reenter the program for 30 days and extending his placement beyond the original release date. Claimant agreed to these provisions. He was ousted from Willard prior to completion of the program, however, because of his continuing failure to participate. Thus, any extra time spent in custody was caused solely by claimant’s own failure to successfully complete the drug treatment program. Inasmuch as claimant has not adduced proof establishing that he was harmed by having been held beyond the statutory 10-day period, dismissal of the claim for false imprisonment was proper (compare Akande v City of New York, 275 AD2d 671, 673 [2000]). We have considered claimant’s remaining contentions,. to the extent they are properly before us, and find them unavailing. Peters, Spain, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Rose, J. Appeals (1) from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed March 28, 2001, which ruled that claimant’s disease was not causally related to his employment and denied his claim for workers’ compensation benefits, and (2) from a decision of said Board, filed May 1, 2002, which denied claimant’s request for reconsideration or full Board review. Claimant, an auto body repairer for approximately 27 years, was diagnosed with stomach cancer. Primarily attributing his condition to exposure to chromium and talc encountered in the course of his employment, claimant filed an application for workers’ compensation benefits. The employer’s workers’ compensation carrier controverted the claim, offering expert testimony that there is no medically recognized causal link between exposure to chromium or talc and stomach cancer. Resolving the conflicting expert evidence against claimant and finding that the evidence failed to establish the cause of his stomach cancer, the Workers’ Compensation Board concluded that his disease was not causally related to his occupation and denied the claim. Claimant now appeals. The Board credited the testimony of the carrier’s expert, a specialist in internal medicine, indicating that research studies have found only one type of chromium to be carcinogenic and then only in the upper respiratory tract. Since claimant’s treating physician conceded that the carcinogenic effect of chromium is most likely linked to lung cancer and since the literature which that expert cited did not substantiate his claim of a causal link between chromium and stomach cancer, the testimony of the carrier’s expert successfully rebutted the statutory presumption of compensability arising under Workers’ Compensation Law § 21 and, in addition, provided substantial evidence supporting the Board’s finding that claimant did not suffer from a disease causally related to his occupation (see Matter of Zingler v Eastman Kodak Co., 288 AD2d 564, 565 [2001]; Matter of Estate of Hertz v Gannett Rochester Newspapers, 272 AD2d 814, 814-815 [2000]). Inasmuch as a conflict in medical testimony is within the province of the Board to resolve, particularly when it relates to causation (see Matter of Newton v Sears Roebuck & Co., 293 AD2d 862, 863-864 [2002]), we find no basis upon which to disturb the Board’s decision. Claimant’s remaining contentions have been considered and found to be without merit, and his appeal from the Board’s decision denying reconsideration or full Board review is deemed abandoned as he has failed to raise any issues with respect thereto in his brief (see Matter of Lombardi v Brooklyn Union Gas Co., 306 AD2d 704, 704 [2003]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decisions are affirmed, without costs.
Mugglin, J. Appeals (1) from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Sheridan, J.), entered March 25, 2002 in Albany County, which, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, denied petitioners’ motion to hold respondents in civil contempt, and (2) from a judgment of said court, entered March 25, 2002 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioners’ application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review a determination of respondent Governor’s Office of Employee Relations denying petitioners’ out-of-title grievances. When this case was previously before us (271 AD2d 738 [2000]), we reversed Supreme Court’s judgment dismissing the petition because we found no rational basis in the record to support respondents’ conclusion that petitioners were not performing out-of-title work. We concluded by stating, “determination annulled and .petition granted” (id. at 740). As a result, petitioners (who were being compensated at salary grades 14 and 17, but who sought to be compensated at grade 25) assert that our decision granted them this relief, that respondents should be held in civil contempt for not paying them at grade 25, and that respondents were without authority to make any further determination concerning petitioners’ salary grade level. Petitioners’ argument is inconsistent with the rationale of our prior decision and contrary to the well-established rule that our powers of review do not include substituting our judgment for that of the administrative agency (see Matter of Skorin-Karpov v State Univ. of N.Y. at Stony Brook, 281 AD2d 632, 633 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 720 [2001]; Matter of Bridger v New York State Off. of Vocational & Educ. Servs. for Individuals with Disabilities, 218 AD2d 850, 852 [1995]; Matter of McCormack v Posillico, 213 AD2d 913, 914 [1995]; Burke’s Auto Body v Ameruso, 113 AD2d 198, 200-201 [1985]). We did not intend to “usurp the administrative function by directing the agency to proceed in a specific manner, which is within the jurisdiction and discretion of the administrative body in the first instance” (Burke’s Auto Body v Ameruso, supra at 201). The administrative body not having made a determination that salary grade 25 was appropriate, it cannot be successfully argued that we reviewed and approved granting petitioners’ back pay at grade 25. The effect of our decision was to annul the original determination and remit the issue to the agency for further proceedings. Under these circumstances, we are unpersuaded by petitioners’ attempt to hold respondents in civil contempt. No unequivocally clear order ever existed by which petitioners were entitled to be compensated at salary grade 25 and, therefore, it was not violated by respondents (see Judiciary Law § 753 [A] [3]; CPLR 5104; Matter of Civil Serv. Empls. Assn., Local 1000, AFSCME, AFL-CIO [State of New York], 273 AD2d 668, 671 [2000]; Matter of Council 82, AFSCME, AFL-CIO [Campbell], 268 AD2d 859, 861 [2000]). As a substantive matter, petitioners also argue that the new determination to compensate them at salary grade 17 is arbitrary and capricious and without adequate support in the record. We cannot agree. Petitioners’ duties as Treatment Plan Coordinators were reviewed and compared to various classified positions to determine which they most closely resembled. It was determined that their duties most closely resembled those of a Social Work Assistant 3, salary grade 17, whose duties include summarizing patient history and background, interviewing patients to prepare case histories, proposing treatment plans, working with various disciplines to plan revised treatment programs and presenting information to various staff members. According due deference to such determination (see Matter of Dolan v New York State Dept. of Civ. Serv., 304 AD2d 1037, 1039 [2003]; Matter of Save the Pine Bush v Planning Bd. of City of Albany, 298 AD2d 806, 808 [2002]), we find that the determination is not arbitrary, capricious or without support in the record. Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgments are affirmed, without costs.
Crew III, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed December 31, 2001, which rejected claimant’s request for the recalculation of interest and penalties. Claimant was rendered a quadriplegic as a result of a 1972 work-related accident and classified as permanently totally disabled. Following a determination that his workers’ compensation benefits should include reimbursement for home-care service expenses, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge (hereinafter WCLJ), by notice of decision filed September 20, 1988, directed the carrier to audit and reimburse such expenses at the rate of $9.50 per hour. A dispute thereafter arose as to, inter alia, whether claimant actually was receiving the home-care services at issue and, as a result, the workers’ compensation carrier withheld various payments. By notice of decision filed August 10, 1997, a WCLJ rejected the alleged fraud claim and directed the carrier to pay the outstanding home-care expenses. That decision was upheld by the Workers’ Compensation Board on December 21, 1998. Although claimant’s subsequent request for interest and penalties was granted, the Board determined that such interest should be calculated from December 21, 1998, the date upon which the Board directed payment of the outstanding home-care expenses by the carrier, as opposed to September 20, 1988, the date upon which such services were authorized. Claimant now appeals, contending that the Board erred with respect to the date from which the interest due would be measured. We affirm. Except in circumstances not relevant here, “all awards of the board shall draw simple interest from thirty days after the making thereof at the rate provided in [CPLR 5004]” (Workers’ Compensation Law § 20 [1]). As the foregoing language plainly indicates, however, there must first be an actual award. In this regard, the Board correctly observed that “the WCLJ decision filed September 20, 1988 authorized ongoing home care services to be reimbursed at the rate of $9.50 per hour for the amount of home care provided with a direction that the home care provider submit monthly statements of the services rendered. No award for home care services to be subsequently rendered was or could have been made in that decision.” As our review of that decision and the record as a whole confirms the Board’s findings in this regard, we are unable to discern any basis upon which to disturb the Board’s decision. Claimant’s remaining contentions have been examined and found to be lacking in merit. Cardona, P.J., Peters, Carpinello and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Crew III, J.B Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Connor, J.), entered July 24, 2002 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review determinations of respondent Commissioner of Correctional Services finding petitioner guilty of violating certain prison disciplinary rules. By determination rendered December 8, 2000, petitioner, a prison inmate, was found guilty of creating a disturbance, harassment and being out of place. The penalty imposed was 90 days of keeplock and a corresponding loss of privileges. Thereafter, by determination rendered December 12, 2000, petitioner was found guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rule that prohibits self-inflicted bodily harm. As to penalty, petitioner was given 60 days in the special housing unit, a corresponding loss of privileges and a recommended loss of 60 days good time. Petitioner subsequently commenced this proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 seeking to challenge three separate tier III determinations dated December 8, 2000, December 9, 2000 and December 12, 2000, respectively. Respondents answered and the matter was transferred to this Court, whereupon we remitted the matter to Supreme Court as no substantial evidence question was presented. Following remittal, petitioner sought leave to amend the petition and, by judgment entered July 24, 2002, Supreme Court denied the motion, finding that the court lacked jurisdiction due to petitioner’s failure to serve the Attorney General. Supreme Court also rejected petitioner’s procedural challenges to the December 12, 2000 determination and dismissed the underlying petition. Petitioner’s subsequent motion to reargue was unsuccessful, and this appeal from Supreme Court’s July 2002 judgment ensued. We affirm. Even accepting, for purposes of this appeal, that Supreme Court erred in finding that it lacked jurisdiction to entertain petitioner’s motion to amend the petition, we nonetheless are persuaded that petitioner’s application in that regard was properly denied. To be sure, “leave to amend a pleading under CPLR 3025 (b) is freely given in the exercise of the trial court’s discretion, provided there is no prejudice to the nonmoving party and the amendment is not plainly lacking in merit” (New York State Health Facilities Assn. v Axelrod, 229 AD2d 864, 866 [1996]; see Eddy v White, 304 AD2d 959, 960 [2003]). Nonetheless, the movant must demonstrate some evidence of merit as to the new causes of action (see Krouner v Travis, 290 AD2d 917, 918 [2002]). Here, a review of the proposed amended petition reveals two things; first, a rehashing and restatement—albeit in greater detail—of the very arguments raised in the original petition and, second, a new challenge to two additional determinations of guilt stemming from tier II disciplinary proceedings conducted in January 2002. Merely restating arguments already advanced does not provide an adequate basis for granting the requested relief, and the new causes of action asserted impermissibly expand the scope of the original proceeding. Accordingly, we cannot say that Supreme Court abused its discretion in denying the motion to amend the petition. Petitioner’s remaining arguments do not warrant extended discussion. Based upon our review of the record, we conclude that petitioner’s claim of hearing officer bias is lacking in merit. Although petitioner’s requests to call various extraneous witnesses, including high-level political figures, agency officials and a federal agent, were denied, the case law makes clear that a hearing officer is under no obligation to entertain testimony from witnesses who have no personal knowledge of the charges at issue and whose testimony would be entirely irrelevant to the issue of a petitioner’s guilt or innocence (see Matter of Thomas v Goord, 293 AD2d 787, 788 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 613 [2002]). Nor are we persuaded that petitioner met his burden of establishing that the employee assistance he received was inadequate and that the assistant’s shortcomings resulted in prejudice (see Matter of Cendales v Goord, 293 AD2d 802, 803 [2002]). Petitioner’s remaining contentions, to the extent not specifically addressed, have been examined and found to be lacking in merit. Peters, Spain, Carpinello and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs. As the determination rendered December 9, 2000 was administratively reversed, Supreme Court found petitioner’s challenge to that specific determination to be moot. The court’s decision does not expressly address the December 8, 2000 determination.
Spain, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Malone, Jr., J.), entered October 9, 2001 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review a determination of respondent denying petitioner’s request for the return of his rechargeable beard trimmer. Petitioner, an inmate at the Groveland Correctional Facility in Livingston County, was found to be in possession of a rechargeable electric beard trimmer in violation of correctional facility rules. Seeking the return of his beard trimmer or permission to order an identical unit, petitioner filed a grievance with the Inmate Grievance Resolution Committee. Following a full investigation, petitioner’s request was denied, which determination was affirmed by respondent upon administrative appeal. Petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding to challenge respondent’s determination. Supreme Court dismissed the petition and denied petitioner’s applications for discovery and an extension of time to conduct discovery: Petitioner appeals, and we affirm. Initially, we reject petitioner’s contention that Supreme Court erred in denying his discovery motions. In a proceeding of this nature, discovery is available only by leave of the court (see CPLR 408) and Supreme Court “has broad discretion in granting or denying disclosure, although it must balance the needs of the party seeking discovery against such opposing interests as expedition and confidentiality” (Matter of Town of Pleasant Val. v New York State Bd. of Real Prop. Servs., 253 AD2d 8, 16 [1999]). Here, petitioner has failed to demonstrate a need for further disclosure. Turning to respondent’s determination, the record establishes that the denial of petitioner’s grievance was not arbitrary and capricious and has a rational basis. Where, as here, “an appropriate investigation of the matter reveals nothing to substantiate petitioner’s claims, . . . there is no basis for this Court to disturb the determination denying the grievance” (Matter of Cliff v Brady, 290 AD2d 895, 896 [2002], lv dismissed and denied 98 NY2d 642 [2002]; see Matter of Cliff v Eagen, 272 AD2d 687, 688 [2000]). The rules of the Department of Correctional Services leave to the discretion of the superintendent at each facility the determination of which types of electric beard trimmers inmates will be permitted to possess. Petitioner violated the Groveland Correctional Facility rule—which permits battery powered beard trimmers only—by possessing an electric trimmer with a built-in rechargeable power source. We reject petitioner’s specific claim that Supreme Court improperly relied on Matter of Piper v Coughlin (99 AD2d 511 [1984]) in dismissing his petition, inasmuch as Matter of Piper clearly supports the proposition for which it was cited—that a battery powered trimmer provides another adequate method by which petitioner can trim his hair. Petitioner’s remaining contentions are unpersuasive. Given that a full investigation was conducted and a hearing held before the administrative determination was rendered, petitioner has been given a full and fair opportunity to be heard. In addition, there is no record support for petitioner’s claim that Supreme Court was biased. Her cure, J.P., Peters, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Carpincho, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (McGill, J.), entered October 17, 2002 in Clinton County, which denied defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. While responding to a report of a possible burglary in process, defendant, a state trooper, was driving his patrol car on a two-lane highway in heavy rain when it started to fishtail and hydroplane on the wet road. Losing control of the car, he spun around, crossed the center line and struck an oncoming vehicle, injuring both occupants. In this resulting lawsuit, defendant sought summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that, as a police officer engaged in an emergency operation, he can only be held liable if his conduct demonstrated a “reckless disregard for the safety of others” (Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1104 [e]; see Saarinen v Kerr, 84 NY2d 494, 501 [1994]). Supreme Court denied the motion, finding a question of fact as to whether his conduct violated that standard. Defendant now appeals. Our review of the record reveals the following. At the time of the accident defendant had not yet completed his one-year period of probation, which began upon his graduation from the police academy. He testified at an examination before trial that his speed at the time of the present accident was between 60 and 65 miles per hour in an area where the posted speed limit was 55 miles per hour. Tellingly, however, a subsequent State Police investigation of the accident concluded that defendant’s speed was too fast for the special hazard then existing (a wet roadway), causing defendant to be subjected to disciplinary proceedings. The acting zone commander for the State Police at the time ultimately determined that the accident was “preventable ... on the part of [defendant].” In addition, various witnesses who were either passed by defendant while driving in the same direction shortly before the accident or who observed defendant drive past their residences testified that he was going “fast,” “well in excess of 50 or 60” and “[b]etween 80 and 100.” On this appeal, defendant argues that these nonparty opinions of speed should be rejected as without adequate foundation. In response, we need only note that persons of ordinary intelligence and experience who have had an opportunity to observe the relative speeds of motor vehicles may testify as to the speed of a particular vehicle on a particular occasion (see Shpritzman v Strong, 248 AD2d 524, 525 [1998]; People v Racine, 132 AD2d 899, 900 [1987], lv denied 70 NY2d 754 [1987]). While the basis for each witness’s experience in this regard may not have been explored in their pretrial depositions, we cannot say that their opinions should be rejected outright, especially when the task at hand is not to determine the issue, but merely to ascertain whether an issue of fact exists (see LoFaso v Jamaica Buses, 63 AD2d 998, 998 [1978]; see also Siegel, NY Prac § 281, at 443 [3d ed] [evidence inadmissible at trial may be considered on summary judgment]). Notwithstanding defendant’s repeated emphasis on his version of his speed, the critical issue is not simply the speed of the vehicle (itself a fact in dispute), but rather whether driving at that speed under the conditions of a heavy rain could be found by a jury to constitute reckless conduct (see McCarthy v City of New York, 250 AD2d 654, 655 [1998]; compare Schieren v State of New York, 281 AD2d 828, 831 [2001]; Mullane v City of Amsterdam, 212 AD2d 848, 850 [1995]). Since we find sufficient credible evidence in the record to create a question of fact on this issue, we affirm. Crew III, J.P., Spain, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. Admittedly, this latter speed range was characterized as a “guesstimate.”
Mugglin, J. Appeals (1) from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed March 20, 2002, which ruled that claimant’s Workers’ Compensation Law § 120 claim was not timely filed, and (2) from a decision of said Board, filed September 23, 2002, which, inter alia, denied claimant’s application for full Board review. On June 9, 1986, claimant injured his right shoulder while replacing equipment under a subway car. He filed a claim for workers’ compensation benefits in connection with this injury. On June 27, 1990, the self-insured employer removed claimant from active service and placed him on disability retirement status. At the time, claimant’s workers’ compensation case was still pending. It continued to remain open until August 2002 when claimant was eventually classified with a marked permanent partial disability. On April 23, 2001, however, claimant filed a discrimination claim with the Workers’ Compensation Board alleging that his placement on disability retirement was in retaliation for filing a workers’ compensation claim. This followed a March 23, 2001 decision of the Board which rescinded a prior decision of a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge (hereinafter WCLJ) finding that claimant was permanently partially disabled, and restoring the case to the trial calendar for further development of the issues of, among other things, further causally related disability. Following a hearing on the discrimination claim, a WCLJ found that it was not timely filed in accordance with the provisions of Workers’ Compensation Law § 120. The Board affirmed the WCLJ’s decision and denied claimant’s subsequent application for full Board review, resulting in these appeals. Workers’ Compensation Law § 120 requires that an employee asserting a claim of discrimination by an employer for filing a workers’ compensation claim must file the discrimination claim within two years of the alleged discriminatory practice. Claimant argues, among other things, that the two-year period should be measured from the Board’s March 23, 2001 decision rescinding the WCLJ’s findings of permanent partial disability because that is when he discovered that he was not disabled and the self-insured employer was using his alleged disability as a means of retaliating against him by terminating his employment. We find this argument unpersuasive. The statute specifically provides that the time period rims from the alleged discriminatory practice which, in this case, was claimant’s June 27, 1990 placement on disability retirement status. The discrimination claim was not filed until almost 11 years later (see Matter of Jirak v Federal Express Corp., 253 AD2d 986 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 818 [1998]; Matter of Stabak v ISS Intl., 248 AD2d 814, 815 [1998], lv dismissed and denied 92 NY2d 891 [1998]). The fact that further evidence was taken on the extent of claimant’s disability during the fairly lengthy workers’ compensation proceedings does not establish that the discrimination claim accrued at a later date, particularly since claimant was ultimately classified with a marked permanent partial disability. We have considered claimant’s other arguments and find them to be without merit. Crew III, J.P., Rose, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decisions are affirmed, without costs.
Mercure, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Flumadore, J.), entered September 19, 2002 in St. Lawrence County, which denied plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint. In June 1996, plaintiff, a physician, retained defendants Charles A. Gardner (hereinafter defendant) and Gary W. Miles to commence a proceeding against a hospital that allegedly had interfered with plaintiffs practice of medicine. In August 1999, plaintiff commenced this legal malpractice action against defendant, Miles and their firm, essentially alleging that defendants failed to pursue an order to show cause designed to restore his privileges at the hospital and that they improperly forwarded information to opposing counsel in an unrelated medical malpractice action commenced against plaintiff. In September 1999, defendant moved to dismiss the complaint against himself and the firm. Plaintiff cross-moved, seeking leave to amend the complaint. Supreme Court (Demarest, J.), among other things, denied the cross motion to amend and dismissed the complaint against defendant as time-barred. Plaintiff thereafter moved for reargument in February 2000. Treating plaintiffs motion as one for renewal, Supreme Court (Plumadore, J.) denied the motion, concluding that plaintiff failed to show any new facts supporting the motion to amend. In March 2002, plaintiff moved again for leave to amend the complaint, seeking to add a cause of action against defendant. Supreme Court denied the motion and plaintiff appeals. Whether treated as a motion to renew the prior request for leave to amend or a new motion to amend, we agree with Supreme Court that plaintiff fails to allege any new facts demonstrating that the action as against defendant is not time-barred. Absent a showing of merit by plaintiff, we cannot say that Supreme Court abused its discretion in denying the motion (see Krouner v Travis, 290 AD2d 917, 918-919 [2002]; Ferrari v Williams, 281 AD2d 819, 820-821 [2001], lv dismissed 97 NY2d 653 [2001]; Curtin v Community Health Plan, 276 AD2d 884, 886 [2000]). Cardona, PJ., Carpinello, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs.
Lahtinen, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Sise, J.), entered April 4, 2002 in Fulton County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review a determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals of the City of Gloversville, inter alia, denying its application for a use variance. Petitioner purchased its facility for use in leather coloring and finishing in the City of Gloversville, Fulton County at a time when the property was zoned for any manufacturing use. Thereafter, the property was reclassified as an “M-l” district where no uses were permitted as of right. Petitioner continued operating as a nonconforming use and, in October 2000, purchased beaming equipment. Beaming is the dehairing stage of leather processing entailing, among other things, the use of certain chemicals. Petitioner applied for a zoning permit to allow beaming on its property and the application was denied by respondent Robert Robbins, the Building and Plumbing Inspector for respondent City of Gloversville, who determined that beaming was not permitted in an M-l district. Petitioner appealed to the City’s Zoning Board of Appeals (hereinafter ZBA) challenging Robbins’s interpretation of the City’s zoning ordinance and, alternatively, seeking a use variance to permit beaming. Over the course of several public hearings, the ZBA upheld Robbins’s determination that beaming was not an allowable activity in an M-l district, heard testimony on petitioner’s application for a use variance and considered the financial records submitted by petitioner. The ZBA denied petitioner’s application for a use variance in March 2001. Petitioner commenced the current proceeding and, in November 2001, Supreme Court upheld the ZBA’s interpretation of the zoning ordinance as not permitting beaming in the M-l district. Supreme Court did not, however, reach the merits regarding the denial of a use variance since it found the record inadequate. Consequently, the court remitted the matter for the ZBA to “make findings that correlate the evidence in the record to the standards governing the issuance of a use variance and indicate what evidence it acted upon in reaching its determination.” Thereafter, the ZBA set forth the reasons for its prior denial of petitioner’s application, including a failure to establish financial hardship. Supreme Court found such reason sufficiently supported by the record and dismissed the petition. This appeal ensued. Initially, we find unpersuasive petitioner’s contention that beaming is permitted under the current zoning of its property. Petitioner premises this argument upon the fact that beaming is not specifically mentioned as a prohibited activity in the City’s zoning ordinance. The relevant section of the zoning ordinance, however, states that no uses are permitted as of right in an M-l district. Moreover, subject to site plan review, leather processing is specifically permitted in an M-2 district. Therefore, it is readily apparent from reading the provisions of the zoning ordinance regarding M-l and M-2 districts that leather processing is not a permitted use in an M-l district. Petitioner further argues that beaming is an accessory use to its prior nonconforming use. While “the overriding policy of zoning is aimed at the ultimate elimination of nonconforming uses” (Matter of Syracuse Aggregate Corp. v Weise, 51 NY2d 278, 284 [1980]; see Matter of Toys “R” Us v Silva, 89 NY2d 411, 417 [1996]), a property owner is allowed to have an accessory use of the property so long as such use is “truly incidental to the nonconforming use and does not change the basic nature of the use of the property” (Verstandig’s Florist v Board of Appeals of Town of Bethlehem, 229 AD2d 851, 852 [1996]; see Matter of Gilchrist v Town of Lake George Planning Bd., 255 AD2d 791, 792 [1998]). It is undisputed that petitioner engaged in only the coloring and finishing of leather that had already been beamed and tanned elsewhere. Although beaming is a necessary stage in the overall processing of leather, it is a discrete process that is not incidental to finishing and coloring. It involves, among other things, the introduction of chemicals not previously used at petitioner’s facility and, as noted by Supreme Court, petitioner described the addition of beaming as an expansion of the existing use. We are not convinced that petitioner. established that beaming would be accessory to its current nonconforming use. Petitioner next argues that the ZBA erred in denying its application for a use variance. Zoning boards are afforded considerable discretion and their determinations are generally not disturbed if they have a rational basis and are supported by substantial evidence (see Matter of Marzocco v City of Albany, 217 AD2d 872, 873 [1995]). A party seeking a use variance must establish “(1) that the property cannot yield a reasonable return if used for permitted purposes as currently zoned, (2) that the hardship results from unique characteristics of the property, and (3) that the proposed use will not alter the character of the neighborhood” (Matter of Conte v Town of Norfolk Zoning Bd. of Appeals, 261 AD2d 734, 735-736 [1999]; see General City Law § 81-b [3]). To satisfy the first requirement, the landowner “must demonstrate factually, by dollars and cents proof, an inability to realize a reasonable return under existing permissible uses” (Matter of Village Bd. of Vil. of Fayetteville v Jarrold, 53 NY2d 254, 256 [1981]). Petitioner’s submissions included financial statements for approximately 2V2 years prior to May 1999, handwritten ledgers of accounts payable and receivable from 1999 and 2000, and a typed statement from petitioner’s president. There is little development or explanation of petitioner’s financial information in the record. As noted by Supreme Court, the financial information appears to reflect a modest profit. In any event, there was not a “detailed economic analysis” (Matter of SoHo Alliance v New York City Bd. of Stds. & Appeals, 95 NY2d 437, 441 [2000]) and, thus, we are not persuaded that the ZBA’s determination, that petitioner failed to meet this first requirement, lacked a rational basis (see Matter of Eck v City of Kingston Zoning Bd. of Appeals, 302 AD2d 831 [2003]; cf. Matter of Supkis v Town of Sand Lake Zoning Bd. of Appeals, 227 AD2d 779 [1996]). Petitioner further argues that it was denied due process because, after Supreme Court remitted the matter to the ZBA, the ZBA failed to give notice of its subsequent meeting. However, the meeting was held for the ZBA to memorialize its prior decision by setting forth the reasons for that decision, and no new evidence was received or considered. Under such circumstances, the failure to notify petitioner, while certainly not a laudable procedure, did not constitute a denial of due process (see Matter of Grando v Town of Islip, 172 AD2d 663, 664 [1991]). Petitioner’s remaining arguments have been considered and found either unpreserved or unpersuasive. Mercure, J.P, Peters, Spain and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed April 22, 2002, which ruled that claimant had a permanent partial disability with a 50% impairment in his earning capacity. Claimant was injured in August 1998 while performing his duties as a volunteer firefighter with the Brentwood Fire District. His application for benefits under the Volunteer Firefighters’ Benefit Law was granted by the Workers’ Compensation Law Judge (hereinafter WCLJ), who found claimant to be permanently partially disabled, causing a 50% impairment of his earning capacity. The Workers’ Compensation Board affirmed the decision and this appeal by the District and its workers’ compensation carrier ensued. We affirm. A volunteer firefighter is entitled to disability benefits if he or she can establish a loss of earning capacity defined as the ability to perform on a five-day or six- day basis work usually and ordinarily performed in his or her remunerated employment or a reasonable substitute therefor (see Volunteer Firefighters’ Benefit Law § 3 [8] [a], [b]; Matter of Dentico v Village of Walworth, 254 AD2d 515, 515 [1998]; Matter of Young v Moyers Corners Fire Dept., 243 AD2d 883, 884 [1997]; Matter of Verilli v Town of Harrison, Hook & Ladder Co. No. 1, Volunteer Firemen’s Co., 34 AD2d 1074 [1970], affd 28 NY2d 882 [1971]). At the time of the injury, claimant was working for a hazardous waste removal company, driving large trucks and occasionally moving drums weighing from 3Ó0 to 500 pounds. Claimant’s medical evidence established that he suffered a moderate partial disability, permanent in nature, precluding his return to any employment, including the trucking industry, which involves heavy lifting, pushing, pulling or carrying activities or prolonged sitting or standing. This medical evidence, together with claimant’s testimony, constitutes substantial evidence supporting the Board’s determination sustaining the findings of the WCLJ concerning claimant’s loss of earning capacity (see Matter of Dentico v Village of Walworth, supra at 515; Matter of Young v Moyers Corners Fire Dept., supra at 884). We reject the contention that claimant’s ultimate return to the status of a class A firefighter requires a contrary decision. Volunteer Firefighters’ Benefit Law § 3 (8) provides that the ability to perform the duties of a volunteer firefighter may be considered in determining loss of earning capacity. Here, the record establishes that whenever claimant experienced back problems, his classification was either downgraded or he was assigned light duty tasks, which he can perform consistent with his medical limitations. We also reject the contention of the District and its carrier that claimant’s employment record following the accident does not support a finding of loss of earning capacity. Entitlement to benefits is not determined by the amount of earnings after injury, but is solely measured by loss of earning capacity (see Matter of Dentico v Village of Walworth, supra at 515; Matter of Halbin v Lindenhurst Fire Dept., 39 AD2d 991, 992 [1972]). Finally, we find no error associated with the WCLJ affording little weight to the report prepared by the District’s examining physician, since the physician failed to appear for cross-examination (see 12 NYCRR 300.10 [c]). Mercure, J.E, Peters, Spain and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Peters, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Caruso, J.), entered August 20, 2002 in Schenectady County, which granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Plaintiff was involved in an automobile accident in August 2000, and was taken to the hospital. After X rays failed to reveal any signs of fracture, she was diagnosed with contusions and abrasions, given pain medication and discharged. In August 2001, she commenced this action against the owner and operator of the vehicle that struck her, alleging a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Despite her history of lower back pain with radiating pain down her right leg due to a prior injury, plaintiff alleged that, as a result of this accident, she suffers from lower back pain radiating down both legs, as well as pain in her right arm and hand, numbness in her left leg and foot, neck pain, headaches and a loss of balance. Following joinder of issue and discovery, defendants successfully moved for summary judgment. This appeal followed. Defendants’ proffer consisted of plaintiffs hospital records, her treatment records with Claude Guerra, a chiropractor, MRI results, discovery responses and reports of three independent medical examinations. One independent medical examination conducted in November 2000 by Michael Dudick, a chiropractor, concluded that although plaintiffs cervical spine was normal, there were mild to moderate abnormalities in the thoracolumbar spine. However, no objective evidence could confirm that plaintiff became disabled as a result of this accident and Dudick found no reason for plaintiff not to return to work on a full-time basis. Thereafter, Michael Bernhardt, a chiropractor, examined plaintiff. He noted an exacerbation of lumbar strain associated with the accident, but could not discern its extent since he was unfamiliar with her past history. As far as the cervical spine, Bernhardt opined that although plaintiff reported cervical strain, the electro-diagnostic studies he performed were negative, and there were no objective findings of nerve involvement. Bernhardt also opined that depending upon the type of work, plaintiff could return to full-time employment. Finally, an MRI of plaintiffs cervical spine and lumbosacral spine led Richard Holub, a neurologist, to conclude that plaintiff has a “mild partial disability with subjective complaints of long duration and minimal physical findings, chronic involuntary muscle spasms without significant neurological deficit”; MRIs taken of plaintiffs cervical and lumbar spine in September 2000 showed minor abnormalities and, when the MRI of the lumbar spine was compared to a 1997 MRI of the same area, there was “no significant interval change.” With defendants having satisfied their prima facie burden of establishing that plaintiff did not sustain a permanent consequential injury or a significant limitation of use of the cervical and lumbar spine within the meaning of the statute (see Temple v Doherty, 301 AD2d 979, 980-981 [2003]; Trotter v Hart, 285 AD2d 772, 773 [2001]; Rose v Furgerson, 281 AD2d 857, 858 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 602 [2001]), we turn to plaintiffs proffer. The burden was upon plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact through the use of competent, objective medical evidence and diagnostic tests (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345, 353 [2002]; Drexler v Melanson, 301 AD2d 916, 917-918 [2003]; Rose v Furgerson, supra at 859). She proffered both her affidavit and Guerra’s affidavit, her medical records, and her deposition transcript. Guerra’s affidavit detailed her treatment history, concluding with a diagnosis of “Cervical IVD Syndrome with Myelopathy; Cervical Strain/Sprain (whiplash injury); Sciatica Neuralgia; and Lumbar Strain/Sprain.” Guerra concluded, based upon objective findings, radiographic studies, cervical and lumbar MRIs and nerve conduction tests, that plaintiff was permanently injured due to the August 2000 accident. However, his affidavit was based upon his examination of plaintiff 16 months earlier. Under these circumstances, Supreme Court properly found the affidavit to be deficient as a matter of law (see Davis v Evan, 304 AD2d 1023, 1025 [2003]; Best v Bleau, 300 AD2d 858, 861 [2002]; Trotter v Hart, supra at 773). Were we to consider it, we would still conclude that the physical findings in both the X rays and MRIs do not support his diagnosis of permanent and significant injuries of both the cervical and lumbar spine (see Davis v Evan, supra at 1025). While Guerra lists the numerous tests he performed, he failed to identify the tests he used to formulate his ultimate opinion (see Temple v Doherty, supra at 981). Accordingly, plaintiff demonstrated nothing more than “ ‘a mild, minor or slight limitation of use’ ” (id. at 981, quoting King v Johnston, 211 AD2d 907, 907 [1995]) under both the permanent consequential and significant limitation of use categories. With respect to her 90/180 serious injury claim (see Insurance Law § 5102 [d]), we agree that after defendants sustained their prima facie burden on this issue, plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue by either the proffer of her own affidavit describing her limitation in activity or by Guerra’s affidavit. He acknowledges plaintiffs limitation in her daily activities and opines that she will continue to be limited in the future, yet fails to specify the degree to which her activities will be limited or how any objective tests justify what appears to be a self-imposed restriction (see Davis v Evan, supra at 1025; Drexler v Melanson, supra at 919). As there was no demonstration that her usual activities were curtailed “to a great extent rather than some slight curtailment” (Licari v Elliott, 57 NY2d 230, 236 [1982]), we affirm the dismissal of this claim. Mercure, J.E, Spain, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs.
Cardona, EJ. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed April 16, 2002, which ruled that C.N.A. Insurance Company is responsible for claimant’s claim for workers’ compensation benefits. Claimant was employed as a machine worker whose duties involved the repeated pressing of foot pedals. In 1997, he began experiencing pain and having difficulties with his left foot resulting in surgery in 1998. His treating orthopedist at that time, Vivian Chang, did not consider the problem to be work-related. Claimant returned to work but continued to experience foot pain. Orthopedist Gerald Ortiz began treating claimant on January 26, 1998 and diagnosed him with a nonwork-related condition of synovitis of the left ankle. However, after ordering further tests, including an MRI, he concluded on March 5, 1998 that claimant suffered from sinus tarsi syndrome in his left ankle caused by his repetitive use of foot pedals at work. Claimant thereafter filed a claim for compensation alleging that the date of injury was in November 1998. When C.N.A. Insurance Company (hereinafter CNA) received the notice of indexing of the claim for a November 1998 injury, it responded that it was improperly charged because its coverage ceased in March 1998. At the first hearing in this matter, CNA’s counsel stated that CNA was “raising all C-7 issues.” Notably, in the course of the litigation, claimant continually asserted a March 1997 date of disablement and filled in forms to that effect including, inter alia, his application for disability benefits, first notice and proof of claim, and the employer’s accident report. Inasmuch as CNA was the responsible carrier for a March 1997 injury, CNA proceeded to defend the claim on behalf of the employer through several hearings. In a reserve decision filed January 3, 2001, the Workers’ Compensation Law Judge (hereinafter WCLJ) found that claimant suffered from an occupational disease of his left foot and listed November 25, 1998 as the date of disablement. CNA appealed that determination to the Workers’ Compensation Board, but did not specifically mention the coverage issue. In a decision filed May 2, 2001, the Board affirmed the WCLJ’s decision and continued the case. In a letter to the Board dated May 17, 2001, CNA again raised the claim that it was not the responsible carrier for a November 1998 injury. The claim was then indexed against EBI/Royal and SunAlliance (hereinafter EBI), purportedly the responsible carrier for the employer in November 1998. Following a June 25, 2001 hearing, the WCLJ found that EBI was the proper carrier, the employer had been adequately represented by CNA during the proceedings and, accordingly, made the workers’ compensation awards against EBI. Following FBI’s appeal, the Board reversed, applying the doctrine of laches against CNA and estopped it from claiming that it was not the responsible carrier, resulting in this appeal. The equitable doctrine of laches can be applied to estop a party from asserting a defense when there has been an inexcusable delay in raising the defense of noncoverage together with actual injury or prejudice, i.e., “a change of position, intervention of equities, loss of evidence or other disadvantage” (75A NY Jur 2d, Limitations and Laches § 369; see Matter of Kobre v Camp Mogen Avraham, 293 AD2d 893, 895 [2002]; Matter of Taylor v Vassar Coll., 138 AD2d 70, 73 [1988]). Mere lapse of time does not establish prejudice. Here, while EBI argues that there was an inexcusable delay on the part of CNA in disclaiming coverage, it fails to particularize any actual injury, relying instead upon the generalized assertion that its due process rights were violated. Initially, we do not find a substantial delay herein given the fact that the disablement date of November 25, 1998 was not established until January 3, 2001 and there was only a four-month delay before CNA sent its May 17, 2001 letter to the Board indicating that EBI was the proper carrier. In any event, even assuming the delay inexcusable, we find insufficient evidence supporting a claim of prejudice given that, prior to the claim being closed (cf. Matter of Druziak v Town of Amsterdam, Cranesville Fire Dept., 209 AD2d 870 [1994], lv denied 85 NY2d 809 [1995]), EBI had sufficient notice that a claim was indexed against it and was able to appear at the June 25, 2001 hearing. Thereafter, it had the opportunity to challenge the WCLJ’s determination that it was the responsible carrier. In fact, EBI was able to argue, albeit unsuccessfully, that the date of disablement should have been set in March 1997 instead of November 1998. Thus, it appears that no potential defenses were lost herein due to CNA’s delay in disputing coverage (cf. Matter of Carney v Newburgh Park Motors, 84 AD2d 599, 600 [1981]). For all of the forgoing reasons, especially all documentation in the record supporting a good faith belief on CNA’s part during the litigation that March 1997 was the appropriate disablement date, we conclude that the Board abused its discretion in applying the doctrine of laches to bar CNA from disputing coverage (see Matter of Schroeter v Grand Hyatt Hotel, 262 AD2d 725, 726 [1999]). Crew III, Mugglin, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is reversed, without costs, and matter remitted to the Workers’ Compensation Board for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Spain, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Malone, Jr., J.), entered February 7, 2003 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review a determination of respondents denying petitioner’s request to participate in the family reunion program. While incarcerated in the Monroe County jail, petitioner hired a hit man to kill a potential witness, who instead killed the witness’s wife and shot her two grandchildren. Upon his subsequent conviction of murder in the first degree, murder in the second degree, attempted murder in the second degree and conspiracy in the first degree, petitioner was sentenced to life in prison without parole. While serving that sentence, petitioner was granted permission to marry, married in December 2001, and thereafter applied to participate in the family reunion program (hereinafter FRP), whereby selected inmates are given the opportunity to meet privately with family members for an extended period of time (see 7 NYCRR 220.1). Due to the heinous nature of petitioner’s crimes, his application was denied. After exhausting administrative remedies, petitioner commenced the instant CPLR article 78 proceeding challenging the determination as irrational. Supreme Court dismissed the petition and petitioner appeals. We affirm. In determining whether a particular prisoner shall be granted participation in the FRR respondents must consider and balance a number of delineated factors, including whether the prisoner has “been convicted of heinous or unusual crimes” (7 NYCRR 220.2 [c] [1] [iii]; see Matter of Doe v Coughlin, 71 NY2d 48, 55 [1987], cert denied 488 US 879 [1988]). The administrative decision process is “heavily discretionary” (Matter of Doe v Coughlin, supra at 56) and denial of participation will be upheld if it has a rational basis (see Matter of Cliff v Brady, 290 AD2d 895, 896 [2002], lv dismissed and denied 98 NY2d 642 [2002]; Matter of Alvarez v Goord, 282 AD2d 890, 891 [2001]; Matter of Mary of Oakknoll v Coughlin, 101 AD2d 931, 932 [1984]). Due to the egregious nature of petitioner’s crimes, he will never be released from prison. Accordingly, petitioner’s participation in the FRP cannot further that program’s goals of sustaining “family ties that have been disrupted as a result of incarceration,” because his family ties did not predate his incarceration, and he will never return to society (7 NYCRR 220.1). Under these circumstances, we conclude that the determination is supported by a rational basis. Mercure, J.P., Peters, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Peters, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Feldstein, J.), entered November 18, 2002 in Clinton County, which granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to annul a determination of respondents denying petitioner’s request to participate in the family reunion program. Petitioner, an inmate at the Clinton Correctional Facility in Clinton County, applied for participation in the family reunion program (hereinafter FRP) with his wife. His application was supported by his guidance counselor and the superintendent. Respondent Frank Bushey, the family reunion coordinator, recommended its denial indicating that petitioner first “needs to complete [the sex offender program]” since his incarceration is based upon his repeated forcible rape of his 14-year-old biological daughter (see People v Rosas, 306 AD2d 91 [2003]). As a sex offender and a central monitoring case, petitioner’s application was subject to “[s]pecial review” (7 NYCRR 220.2 [c]). After being forwarded to the central office of the Department of Correctional Services (hereinafter DOCS), it was denied because of “the nature of [petitioner’s] offense.” Petitioner appealed the determination and later commenced the instant proceeding when no response to that appeal was forthcoming. Thereafter, the Assistant Commissioner of Program Services formally denied petitioner’s appeal, citing the reason for his central monitoring status, the nature of his crime, the age of the victim, the relationship of the victim to petitioner and the “[sensitive nature of the [FRP] to the participation of [s]ex [offenders.” Supreme Court granted petitioner’s petition and. remitted his FRP application finding that the determination lacked an articulated connection between petitioner’s special review trigger and the specifics of his application “such that valid security or other identifiable concerns militate [d] against [its] approval.” We disagree. The regulations detailing the parameters for acceptance into the FRP articulate numerous factors considered by DOCS in the exercise of its discretion (see 7 NYCRR 220.2 et seq.). Moreover, participation is not a constitutionally protected right (see Matter of Doe v Coughlin, 71 NY2d 48, 55 [1987], cert denied 488 US 879 [1988]) and, “[a]s long as the FRP ‘is implemented in a reasonable manner, consistent with the inmate’s status as a prisoner and the legitimate operational considerations of the institution, it will withstand judicial scrutiny’ ” (Matter of Alvarez v Goord, 282 AD2d 890, 891 [2001], quoting Matter of Mary of Oakknoll v Coughlin, 101 AD2d 931, 932 [1984]; see Matter of Cliff v Brady, 290 AD2d 895, 896 [2002], lv dismissed and denied 98 NY2d 642 [2002]). Notably, the regulation cautions that as a precondition, “active participation or actual program completion may be required” (7 NYCRR 220.2 [a] [3] [iii]); this was precisely the basis articulated by Bushey when he recommended a denial. With additional reasons set forth by respondents, we fail to find that the denial of petitioner’s application “ ‘violated any positive statutory requirement or denied [him] a constitutional right’ ” (Matter of Williams v Recore, 251 AD2d 833, 834 [1998], quoting Matter of Gonzalez v Wilson, 106 AD2d 386, 386 [1984]). Nor can we conclude that the determination was “ ‘affected by irrationality bordering on impropriety’ ” (Matter of Williams v Recore, supra at 834, quoting Matter of Gonzalez v Wilson, supra at 386-387) or that the significant delay by respondents in addressing petitioner’s appeal resulted in substantial prejudice (see Matter of Ortiz v Goord, 302 AD2d 830, 831 [2003]). Mercure, Crew III and Lahtinen, JJ., concur; Cardona, EJ., not taking part. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, without costs, and petition dismissed. Petitioner’s central monitoring case status was due to two undisposed attempted murder arrests, as well as a robbery conviction in Illinois.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Albany County) to review a determination of respondent which found petitioner guilty of violating a prison disciplinary rule. Petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding challenging a determination finding him guilty of violating a prison disciplinary rule which prohibits obtaining legal assistance without authorization. The Attorney General has advised this Court by letter that the determination at issue has been administratively reversed and that all references thereto have been expunged from petitioner’s institutional record. Inasmuch as petitioner has received all the relief to which he is entitled and is no longer aggrieved, the matter is dismissed as moot (see Matter of Smith v Goord, 286 AD2d 793 [2001]). Crew III, J.P, Peters, Carpinello, Mugglin and Rose, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the petition is dismissed, as moot, without costs.
Carpinello, J. Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Albany County) to review a determination of respondent which found petitioner guilty of violating certain prison disciplinary rules. Following a visit, petitioner, a prison inmate, was placed in an observation cell because correction officers suspected that he possessed contraband. During a subsequent search of the cell, correction officers found a cell phone battery. Thereafter, petitioner was charged in a misbehavior report with possession of contraband and smuggling. He was found guilty of both charges following a tier III disciplinary hearing. The penalty was modified upon administrative appeal. Petitioner then commenced the instant CPLR article 78 proceeding challenging the determination of guilt. Initially, petitioner contends that the misbehavior report did not contain the specificity required by 7 NYCRR 251-3.1 (c). This regulation, however, “does not require that the report itemize in evidentiary detail all aspects of the case” (Matter of Torres v Goord, 261 AD2d 759, 759 [1999]). “Rather, it suffices to identify the date, time and place of the offense, the specific rule violation and the factual basis for the charge with sufficient particularity to enable the inmate to prepare a defense” (Matter of Couch v Goord, 255 AD2d 720, 721 [1998] [citations omitted]; see Matter of Torres v Goord, supra at 759). Here, the report stated that the observation cell was searched before petitioner was placed in it, at which time no contraband was found. Two days later, the cell phone battery was found and taken to the contraband room. The report also set forth the particular rule violations charged. In our view, this was sufficient to comply with the regulatory requirements. Furthermore, we find no merit to petitioner’s claims that the Hearing Officer refused to consider his objections and deprived him of a fair hearing. The transcript of the hearing reveals that the Hearing Officer acknowledged petitioner’s objection to omissions in the logbook. Notwithstanding such omissions, the Hearing Officer concluded that there was sufficient evidence to find petitioner guilty of the charges. We agree. “The record . . . discloses that the hearing was conducted in a fair and impartial manner, with no indication that its outcome flowed from anything other than the substantial evidence of petitioner’s guilt” (Matter of Antonucci v David, 306 AD2d 654, 654 [2003] [citation omitted]). Therefore, we decline to disturb respondent’s determination. Cardona, P.J., Peters, Spain and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Franklin County) to review a determination of respondent Superintendent of Franklin Correctional Facility which found petitioner guilty of violating a prison disciplinary rule. Petitioner was found guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rule that prohibits destroying state property. The charges stemmed from an investigation prompted by a report from a correction officer that sand had been found in the oil pans of several facility lawn mowers. The investigating officer testified that a confidential informant named petitioner as the culprit. Although the Hearing Officer interviewed that informant in camera, no attempt was made to assess the credibility and reliability of the information (compare Matter of Miller v New York State Dept. of Correctional Servs., 295 AD2d 714 [2002]; Matter of Kemp v Goord, 285 AD2d 943 [2001]). Our review of the in camera material indicates that it was insufficiently detailed to provide an independent assessment of reliability and credibility (cf. Matter of Roman v Goord, 284 AD2d 604 [2001]). The circumstances of the disclosure of petitioner’s involvement raise serious suspicions regarding reliability. In addition, not only did the Hearing Officer fail to ask general questions reflecting on credibility, he failed to address possible motives for false testimony which were raised by another witness. Under the circumstances, we find the evidence insufficient to support the determination at issue (see Matter of Gomez v Coughlin, 227 AD2d 882 [1996]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Feters, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is annulled, without costs, petition granted, and respondents are directed to expunge all references to this matter from petitioner’s institutional records and restore any restitution paid by petitioner.
Kane, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed September 23, 2002, which ruled that claimant did not sustain a further causally related disability. On February 16, 1995, while attempting to evacuate patients from a fire at the hospital where he was working as a police officer, claimant suffered from smoke inhalation and also sustained injuries to his neck, back and arm. As a result, he filed a claim for workers’ compensation benefits and his case was established for accident, notice and causal relationship for bronchitis due to smoke inhalation. However, no finding of permanency was made and the case was closed. Claimant continued to experience respiratory problems and the case was subsequently reopened. Following additional hearings, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge concluded that claimant did not suffer from a further causally related disability due to his bronchitis. The Workers’ Compensation Board affirmed this decision and this appeal by claimant ensued. We affirm. The deposition testimony of Abiola Familusi, the physician who began treating claimant for respiratory problems in September 1999, provides substantial evidence supporting the Board’s decision. He diagnosed claimant with chronic bronchitis, and chronic rhinitis and indicated that these problems were causally related to the February 1995 accident. He opined, however, that such problems did not result in a disability that prevented claimant from returning to work as a hospital police officer. His only qualification was that claimant could not work in an environment where he was exposed to smoke. Inasmuch as Familusi’s testimony established that claimant did not suffer from a continuing work-related disability, we find no reason to disturb the Board’s decision. The fact that claimant was found eligible to receive disability retirement benefits does not compel a contrary conclusion. Cardona, P.J., Peters, Spain and Carpinello, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Clinton County) to review a determination of the Superintendent of Clinton Correctional Facility which found petitioner guilty of violating certain prison disciplinary rules. Petitioner was found guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rules prohibiting threats and violent conduct. As set forth in the misbehavior report, petitioner became aggravated during a medical callout and stated to the nurse that he “will remember when [he] get[s] out of here and kill five more people.” Although the nurse involved in the incident testified that the threat was not directed toward her, she nevertheless stated that she was frightened by the incident. Contrary to petitioner’s contention, the misbehavior report, testimony at the hearing and petitioner’s admission to making the statement provide substantial evidence to support the determination of guilt (see Matter of Jackson v Portuondo, 288 AD2d 733 [2001]). Notwithstanding petitioner’s assertion that the nurse was not the object of the threat, the rule violated prohibits inmates from making “any threat” (7 NYCRR 270.2 [B] [3] [i]). Furthermore, petitioner’s assertions that his statement was taken out of context and the misbehavior report was issued in retaliation for threatening to file a complaint against the medical staff presented credibility issues for the Hearing Officer to resolve (see Matter of Moore v Walsh, 301 AD2d 894, 895 [2003]; Matter of Perkins v Goord, 290 AD2d 700, 701 [2002]; Matter of Dabney v Murphy, 278 AD2d 714, 715 [2000]). We have examined the remaining contentions raised by petitioner and find that they are either without merit or unpreserved for our review. Her cure, J.P., Spain, Carpinello, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Albany County) to review a determination of the Commissioner of Correctional Services which found petitioner guilty of violating certain prison disciplinary rules. Petitioner was found guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rules prohibiting participation in a demonstration and refusing to obey a direct order based upon charges that he had refused a correction officer’s order to report to work in the facility’s mess hall. Substantial evidence of petitioner’s guilt was presented in the form of the misbehavior report and the testimony of the correction officer who witnessed the charged misconduct (see Matter of Smith v Goord, 307 AD2d 564 [2003]; Matter of Harris v Goord, 284 AD2d 841 [2001]). Petitioner’s explanations for refusing to report for work (i.e., he was not scheduled to work that day and he was suffering from a physical malady) are unavailing, as inmates are not free to choose among the direct orders with which they will comply (see Matter of Cepeda v Goord, 305 AD2d 914 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 511 [2003]; Matter of Leake v Goord, 289 AD2d 752 [2001], appeal dismissed 98 NY2d 646 [2002]). Petitioner’s further contention that he considered the officer’s statement to have been more in the nature of a request, rather than a direct order, raised an issue of credibility for resolution by the Hearing Officer (see Matter of Harris v Goord, supra). Finally, we reject petitioner’s contention that he was denied the right to present documentary evidence in the form of a videotape. It was explained to petitioner that due to a mechanical failure, no videotape of the incident existed; hence, the failure to provide a nonexistent tape cannot be considered a violation of petitioner’s rights (see Matter of Cornwall v Goord, 287 AD2d 911, 912 [2001]; Matter of Carini v Goord, 270 AD2d 663, 664 [2000]). The remaining issues raised herein have been examined and found to be without merit. Cardona, P.J., Her cure, Carpinello, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed. This incident took place around the time of an inmate work stoppage at Five Points Correctional Facility in Seneca County, where petitioner was incarcerated.
Peters, J. Appeals (1) from an amended decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed July 18, 2002, which ruled, inter alia, that further development of the record on the issue of the employer’s liability under Workers’ Compensation Law § 56 was unwarranted, and (2) from a decision of said Board, filed March 10, 2003, which denied the employer’s request for reconsideration or full Board review. On July 27, 1987, claimant was involved in a serious automobile accident while driving a vehicle owned by his employer, a cleaning service. The accident required claimant to undergo a lobotomy leaving him with a severe mental impairment. A claim for workers’ compensation benefits was subsequently filed resulting in extended proceedings during which it was disclosed that the employer did not maintain workers’ compensation insurance. At a hearing before a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge (hereinafter WCLJ) on February 3, 1995, the employer contended that Cleanway Industries, Inc. was a general contractor whose insurance carrier, Travelers Insurance Company, was responsible for the claim under Workers’ Compensation Law § 56. At the conclusion of the hearing, the WCLJ discharged Cleanway and Travelers from the case. The Workers’ Compensation Board, however, reversed the WCLJ’s decision on March 24, 1998 and restored the case to the trial calendar, placing Travelers back on notice. At hearings on September 4, 1998 and January 10, 2000, which the employer did not attend, the Workers’ Compensation Law § 56 issue was raised but no further testimony was taken. At a hearing on May 25, 2000, which the employer did attend, the WCLJ finally established the case for accident, notice and causal relationship, but discharged and removed Cleanway. On appeal, the Board issued an April 16, 2001 decision that, among other things, directed that the record be further developed on the issue of the applicability of Workers’ Compensation Law § 56, as previously instructed. The Board, however, sua sponte, issued an amended decision on July 18, 2002 wherein it, among other things, rescinded its direction that the record be further developed on the issue of Workers’ Compensation Law § 56, concluding that the employer had waived this issue. The employer sought reconsideration or full Board review of this decision. This request was denied. The employer now appeals both decisions. Generally, the Board’s determination of whether or not to allow further development of the record on a particular issue will not be disturbed absent an abuse of discretion (see e.g. Matter of Davis v GA Braun, 306 AD2d 727, 729 [2003]; Matter of Hughes v Steuben County Self-Ins. Plan, 248 AD2d 757, 758 [1998]). We must conclude that the Board abused its discretion under the particular circumstances presented here. While we are sympathetic to the fact that this compensation case had been pending for nearly 15 years at the time of the Board’s amended decision, the Board failed to articulate a compelling reason for its complete turnaround, initiated without the request of any of the parties and without any apparent regulatory authorization. We note that the Workers’ Compensation Law § 56 issue had been pending since 1995 and was a topic on which the record was supposed to have been further developed on more than one occasion. There is no indication why the Board’s directive was not followed. Significantly, the issue was raised and discussed by various parties, including Travelers which had a vested interest in the matter, at hearings conducted after 1995. Although the Board places much emphasis on the employer’s absence at two of these hearings, it appears that the employer’s counsel died sometime after the February 3, 1995 hearing and that at least some of the hearing notices were sent to the wrong address, thus providing a potentially reasonable excuse for its failure to attend. Insofar as we find nothing in the record to justify the Board’s radical departure from its prior decision ordering that the Workers’ Compensation Law § 56 issue be further explored, its decisions must be reversed (see generally Matter of Williams v New York State Dept. of Transp., 277 AD2d 592, 592 [2000]). Mercure, J.P., Spain, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the amended decision and decision are reversed, without costs, and matter remitted to the Workers’ Compensation Board for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Lahtinen, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Hester, Jr., J.), entered December 20, 2002 in Broome County, which denied, defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Plaintiff Carol Rosati (hereinafter plaintiff) sustained injuries when she allegedly slipped and fell on a plastic hanger that had been left on the floor near an exit of defendant’s store in the Town of Vestal, Broome County. After discovery was completed, defendant moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Supreme Court denied the motion and this appeal ensued. Defendant -alleges that there is no proof that it created the condition that caused plaintiff’s fall or that it had actual or constructive notice of the presence of a hanger on the floor. While plaintiffs will bear the burden at trial of establishing that defendant created or had notice of the condition, in the current procedural context—i.e., a motion for summary judgment by defendant—the “initial burden of establishing a prima facie entitlement to judgment” falls upon defendant (Altieri v Golub Corp., 292 AD2d 734, 734 [2002]; see Edwards v Wal-Mart Stores, 243 AD2d 803, 803 [1997]). Consistent with well-settled principles, the role of the court is limited to determining whether the' evidence in the record, when viewed in the light most favorable to the nonmovant, sets forth any triable factual issues (see Boyce v Vazquez, 249 AD2d 724, 726 [1998]). Here, there is evidence indicating that the hanger belonged to the store and there was reportedly a recurrent problem of hangers ending up on the floor. Store cashiers removed the hangers from apparel being purchased by patrons and the place where plaintiff fell was described by one witness as being within “a few feet” of one such cashier. There is proof indicating that, in addition to store cashiers, there was also at least one and perhaps two store employees standing within 10 feet of where plaintiff fell in an area where they “could easily have noticed and removed” the hanger (Rose v Da Ecib USA, 259 AD2d 258, 260 [1999]). Defendant’s assistant manager testified that store employees had been instructed to pick up any hangers they observed on the floor." The assistant manager further acknowledged that he did not know when the area where plaintiff fell, which was located in a high traffic area, had last been inspected before plaintiff’s accident for hangers or other debris. Based upon this record, we find factual issues as to whether defendant caused or had notice of the condition and, thus, Supreme Court properly determined that defendant is not entitled to summary judgment (see Deluna-Cole v Tonali, 303 AD2d 186 [2003]; Edwards v Wal-Mart Stores, supra; Van Steenburg v Great Atl. & Pac. Tea Co., 235 AD2d 1001 [1997]). Crew III, J.P., Feters, Spain and Carpinello, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs.
Cardona, EJ. Appeal from an order of the Court of Claims (Collins, J.), entered October 10, 2002, which, inter alia, granted defendant’s cross motion to dismiss the claim. Claimant, the operator of a 240-bed nursing home facility providing Medicaid services pursuant to a Medicaid provider agreement (see 42 USC § 1396 et seq.), brought this breach of contract action alleging, inter alia, that payment of certain Medicaid reimbursement funds by the Department of Health (hereinafter DOH) was delayed for an extended period of time and, therefore, claimant is entitled to recover interest. The controversy stems from claimant’s involvement in a labor contract dispute with employees represented by Local 144 of the Hotel, Hospital, Nursing Home and Allied Services Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO (hereinafter Local 144). In October 1989, claimant entered into a letter agreement with DOH pursuant to which, inter alia, claimant promised to pay to Local 144 amounts that it held in increased reimbursements previously paid by DOH over a certain time period. As a result of the above, Local 144 and claimant settled the labor dispute in May 1991 by an order entered upon a stipulation of settlement (see Local 144 Hotel, Hosp., Nursing Home & Affiliated Servs. Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO v C.N.H. Mgt. Assoc., 799 F Supp 1554, 1554 [1992]). Without Local 144’s knowledge, however, claimant’s representatives had met with DOH officials shortly before the settlement was reached to discuss computational errors resulting in an estimated $3.3 million in additional reimbursements to be paid to claimant (see Concourse Nursing Home v Engelstein, 181 Misc 2d 85, 86 [1999], affd 278 AD2d 35 [2000]). Upon learning of claimant’s action, Local 144, inter alia, notified DOH that there were inconsistencies in the labor costs that claimant reported to DOH triggering an audit by the Department of Social Services (hereinafter DSS). Payment of the $3.3 million was held in abeyance until the completion of the audit (see id.). In July 1991, DOH submitted the original reimbursement amount to the Division of the Budget for approval (see Local 144, Hotel, Hosp., Nursing Home & Affiliated Servs. Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO v C.N.H. Mgt. Assoc., supra at 1557). In May 1995, DSS issued a final audit report finding that DOH’s determination of original reimbursement amounts due claimant was incorrect and calculated an estimated downward adjustment of $2,242,605 in Medicaid reimbursements. In the meantime, DOH processed claimant’s administrative appeals paying $3.3 million in reimbursements to claimant in July or August 1996. As a result of the audit, however, DSS recouped approximately $2.2 million from the $3.3 million adjustment. In September 1999, claimant filed the present claim seeking, inter alia, specific performance of the letter agreement. In October 2000, claimant and DOH entered into a settlement agreement by which the audit adjustment was eliminated and the recouped funds, less an unrelated offset, were agreed to be paid to claimant. According to claimant, the disputed amounts were paid in January 2001. In March 2001, claimant filed an amended claim seeking, among other things, an accounting and interest on the $3.3 million amount from approximately July 1991 until it was finally paid. Following joinder of issue, the court denied claimant’s summary judgment motion, granted defendant’s cross motion and dismissed the claim. On appeal, claimant maintains that the Court of Claims erred in concluding that there is no basis to award interest on the $3.3 million payment. In doing so, claimant acknowledges that there is no authority in the Medicaid statutes that allows for such interest and that case law has consistently held predecision and postjudgment interest to be nonrecoverable under these and similar circumstances (see e.g. Matter of Rye Psychiatric Hosp. Ctr. v Surles, 218 AD2d 853 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 803 [1995]; Matter of Ostrow v Bane, 213 AD2d 651 [1995]; New York State Assn. of Counties v Axelrod, 213 AD2d 18 [1995], lv dismissed 87 NY2d 918 [1996]; Matter of New York State Health Facilities Assn. v Axelrod, 199 AD2d 752, 754 [1993], revd on other grounds 85 NY2d 326, 332 [1995]; Matter of Trustees of Masonic Hall & Asylum Fund v Commissioner of New York State Dept. of Health, 193 AD2d 249 [1993], appeal dismissed 83 NY2d 802 [1994]; Buffalo Columbus Hosp. v Axelrod, 127 AD2d 987 [1987]; Matter of Schwartzberg v Axelrod, 115 AD2d 891 [1985]; Demisay v Whalen, 84 AD2d 902. [1981]; see also Social Services Law § 367-a). Nevertheless, claimant argues that these cases are distinguishable because they were apparently not presented under a breach of contract theory. Specifically, claimant alleges that DOH breached the Medicaid provider agreement and the 1989 letter agreement and, as a result, and notwithstanding the October 2000 settlement agreement, contends predecision interest is due on the $3.3 million after July 1991 pursuant to CPLR 5001 (a). We are unpersuaded by claimant’s argument. While it is true that interest may be awarded to a claimant upon defendant’s breach of a contract in certain cases (see e.g. Love v State of New York, 78 NY2d 540, 545-546 [1991]), such cases are distinguishable from instances where the payments involved are from a benefit fund (see Matter of Schwartzberg v Axelrod, supra at 894). Specifically, herein, neither the Medicaid provider agreement nor the 1989 letter agreement established a contractual duty of DOH that is independent of its statutory obligations to provide Medicaid reimbursement. In any event, even assuming that interest could be awarded under these circumstances, claimant’s assertion that a breach of contract was established is not compelling. Claimant’s contractual argument is contravened by the Medicaid provider agreement itself which refers to applicable DSS regulations. Those regulations require providers to accept payments under the Medicaid program as payment in full (see 18 NYCRR 504.3 [c]). Significantly, Medicaid reimbursement rates are provisional and a provider has no vested right to such reimbursement rates until they are audited or until the time to conduct an audit has expired (see Matter of Astor Gardens Health Care Ctr. v Novello, 304 AD2d 961, 964 [2003]; see also 10 NYCRR 86-2.7, 86-2.13). Under these particular circumstances, we find no reason to depart from prior case law establishing that payment of interest is not authorized. Given the above conclusion, it is unnecessary to consider the remaining arguments raised by the parties, including defendant’s assertion that all or part of the claim is time-barred. Crew III, Peters, Carpinello and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs. We note that defendant, in its brief, disputes claimant’s assertion that breach of contract theories have not been considered by courts presented with similar claims.
Crew III, J. Appeal from an order and judgment of the Supreme Court (Catena, J.), entered August 16, 2002 in Schenectady County, upon a verdict rendered in favor of defendant. Defendant was hired to repair the water service at a home located on Columbia Street in the City of Schenectady, Schenectady County. In order to effect that repair, defendant dug a trench in the parking lane of Columbia Street. The trench was approximately four feet in width and extended TVs feet into the street. At the end of the workday, defendant covered the trench with two three-quarter-inch sheets of plywood, fastened an orange plastic barrel to the top of the plywood at the outer edge of the trench, erected a barricade and placed two warning cones at the site. The following morning, plaintiff Edward Fazzone, Jr. was operating a garbage truck northerly on Columbia Street. As Fazzone drove over defendant’s plywood bridging, the right rear tire of the garbage truck collapsed through the plywood causing Fazzone to sustain injuries to his back, neck and right shoulder. As a consequence, Fazzone and his spouse, derivatively, commenced this action against defendant alleging that defendant negligently bridged the trench. Following a trial, a jury determined that defendant was not negligent. Plaintiffs’ motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict or, alternatively, for a new trial was denied and judgment was entered dismissing the complaint. Plaintiffs now appeal. We affirm. Plaintiffs’ primary contention is that the jury improperly disregarded the uncontroverted testimony of their expert witness, who opined that defendant was in violation of a City of Schenectady ordinance that required that trenches of the sort involved here be bridged with steel plate. However, the ordinance in question, while indeed providing for bridging, does not dictate that such bridging be of steel plate. Additionally, on cross-examination, plaintiffs’ expert was asked whether the City permitted the covering of trenches with material other than steel plate, to which he replied, “This they basically leave up to the contractor.” It is axiomatic that where, as here, evidence in the case is contrary to the facts that form the basis of an expert’s opinion, or where the expert equivocates on cross-examination, a jury may properly disregard the opinion (see e.g. Baker v Shepard, 276 AD2d 873, 875 [2000]). As there is ample evidence in the record from which the jury could have concluded that defendant was not negligent—namely, the precautionary measures undertaken by defendant and Fazzone’s admitted observance thereof—Supreme Court quite properly denied plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the verdict. Cardona, P.J., Mugglin, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order and judgment is affirmed, with costs.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed September 10, 2002, which ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because his employment was terminated due to misconduct. Claimant was employed as a traffic enforcement agent by the New York City Police Department. He submitted his resignation following notification that unless he resigned, his employment would be terminated due to his guilty plea in connection with assault charges. A hearing before an Administrative Law Judge resulted in a determination that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because he lost his employment due to misconduct. The Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board affirmed the administrative determination, prompting this appeal. Substantial evidence supports the Board’s decision that claimant’s conviction of harassment in the second degree constitutes disqualifying misconduct (see Matter of Zegarelli [Sweeney], 241 AD2d 616, 616 [1997]; Matter of Cerasuolo [New York City Dept. of Correction—Hudacs], 205 AD2d 827, 827 [1994]). Claimant’s remaining contentions have been reviewed and found to be without merit. Mercure, J.P., Peters, Rose, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs. Claimant had pleaded guilty to harassment in the second degree after he was charged with assaulting his wife and her companion during his off-duty hours.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from that part of an order of the Supreme Court (Bradley, J.), entered June 20, 2002 in Ulster County, which granted a motion by defendant Carpet Store and Warehouse for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it. The issue presented on this appeal is whether defendant Paul C. Parisio, at the time that the van he was operating collided with plaintiffs vehicle, was an employee of defendant Carpet Store and Warehouse (hereinafter defendant) or whether he was an independent contractor. The distinction is crucial because “as a general rule, a party who engages an independent contractor is not liable for the independent contractor’s negligence because that party has no right to supervise or control the work being performed” (Richardson v Simone, 275 AD2d 576, 576 [2000]; see Berger v Dykstra, 203 AD2d 754, 754 [1994], lv dismissed and denied 84 NY2d 965 [1994]). “Control of the method and means by which the work is to be done . . . is the critical factor in determining whether one is an independent contractor or an employee for the purposes of tort liability” (Berger v Dykstra, supra at 754 [citations omitted]). “Other relevant factors include whether the individual furnishes his own tools or equipment, how payment is made and whether Social Security and other taxes are withheld from such payments” (Greene v Osterhoudt, 251 AD2d 786, 787 [1998] [citations omitted]). While this determination “is generally a question of fact, where the evidence in the record is undisputed, the issue may be determined as a matter of law” (Mason v Spendiff, 238 AD2d 780, 781 [1997]). Here, although the evidence is undisputed, plaintiff argues that summary judgment should not have been granted to defendant because competing inferences may be drawn from the facts. We disagree and affirm. Defendant sells at retail, but does not install, various types of floor covering, including carpeting, vinyl, tile and hardwood. Typically, when carpet is sold, defendant’s representatives measure the customer’s floor area, prepare an invoice which reflects the square yardage of the carpet sold and a labor charge, take a 50% deposit from the customer, cut the carpet and leave it in defendant’s warehouse with a copy of the invoice. Defendant’s representatives then check for the availability of Parisio or one of defendant’s other installers and confirm the installation date with the customer. Parisio and defendant Kevin Sweeney do business as Independent Floor Covering. When their services are needed, one of defendant’s representatives calls them. Parisio (whose uncle is one of the principals of defendant) is entrusted with a key to the warehouse and typically uses the key to gain entrance to the warehouse for purposes of picking up the cut carpet and copy of the invoice. Parisio and Sweeney use their own tools and equipment to install carpet and purchase any accessories, such as glue and tacks. Their work is not supervised or controlled in any way by defendant. At the end of each week, they submit a bill to defendant at the rate of $3 per square yard of carpet installed and they receive a check payable to Independent Floor Covering for the gross amount earned without deduction for Social Security or other taxes. At the time of the accident, Independent Floor Covering also performed installation work for another flooring company. In our view, these undisputed facts establish as a matter of law that Parisio was an independent contractor for defendant. Plaintiff has failed in her burden by submitting no evidence that Parisio was an employee of defendant, thus raising no triable issue of fact (compare, Wright v La Brake, 267 AD2d 578, 579-580 [1999]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Feters and Carpinello, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed August 9, 2002, which ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because her employment was terminated due to misconduct. Claimant was discharged from her employment as an assistant residential manager at a group home when she left work an hour before the end of her shift. The record establishes that claimant’s supervisor denied her request to leave early and claimant was warned that it would be considered insubordination if she disregarded the supervisor’s directive. The Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board ruled that claimant lost her employment due to disqualifying misconduct. We affirm. Leaving work early without authorization can constitute disqualifying misconduct (see Matter of Greenberg [Commissioner of Labor], 286 AD2d 794 [2001]; Matter of Patrick [La Salle School—Commissioner of Labor], 251 AD2d 944 [1998]). Although claimant maintains that she was otherwise without a ride home, the record establishes that she did not exhaust all possible transportation alternatives in order to protect her employment. Mercure, J.P., Crew III, Mugglin, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed June 27, 2002, which denied claimant’s application to reopen its prior decision. Claimant appeals from the denial of her application to reopen and reconsider a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board dated December 5, 2001 ruling that she was ineligible to receive unemployment insurance benefits. Whether to grant an application to reopen a decision is within the discretion of the Board and, absent a showing that the Board abused its discretion, its decision will not be disturbed (see Matter of Jackson [Commissioner of Labor], 306 AD2d 604 [2003]). Here, in support of her application to reopen, claimant offered no new evidence which was not before the Board on her initial application to reopen. Furthermore, the record belies her assertion that she was denied the right to cross-examine the employer’s witness. Finally, claimant’s attempts to argue the merits of the underlying determination denying her application for unemployment insurance benefits are not properly before this Court inasmuch as claimant failed to perfect her appeal therefrom. Spain, J.P., Mugglin, Rose, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed September 26, 2002, which ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because her employment was terminated due to misconduct. Claimant was employed as a financial consultant and provided with a company credit card to cover business-related expenses only. In October 2001, claimant was placed on a final warning for violating the employer’s travel and business expenses policy after she failed to keep current on the credit card payment. Claimant was discharged in March 2002 after the employer discovered that she used the company credit card to rent a car for personal reasons because she had no personal credit available. Substantial evidence supports the decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board that claimant lost her employment due to disqualifying misconduct. Although claimant explained that she needed the car to admit her mother to a hospital, she nevertheless knew that by using the company credit card she was jeopardizing her employment by violating the standards expected by the employer in a manner which was potentially detrimental to the employer’s interest. Under these circumstances, we find no reason to disturb the Board’s decision (see Matter of Rose [Commissioner of Labor], 282 AD2d 857 [2001]; Matter of Attie [Roberts], 134 AD2d 751 [1987]). Cardona, EJ., Mercure, Carpinello, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed May 1, 2002, which ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because he voluntarily left his employment without good cause. Claimant, a security guard, was to be reassigned after the client requested that he be removed. Claimant was given a counseling memorandum regarding allegations that he was sleeping on the job. Although he was told to wait to speak to the scheduling manager for a new assignment, claimant left after a period of time and did not return. Significantly, claimant had already applied for unemployment insurance benefits. The employer’s subsequent attempts to contact claimant in order to reassign him to a new location went unanswered. Inasmuch as the record establishes that continuing work was available, substantial evidence supports the decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board that claimant left his employment without good cause (see Matter of Hayes [Commissioner of Labor], 296 AD2d 762 [2002]; Matter of Corns [Commissioner of Labor], 272 AD2d 711 [2000]). Any conflict in the hearing testimony presented a credibility issue for the Board to resolve (see Matter of Cranston [Commissioner of Labor], 294 AD2d 694 [2002]). Cardona, EJ., Mercure, Spain, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Froceeding pursuant to CFLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Albany County) to review a determination of respondent which found petitioner guilty of violating a prison disciplinary rule. Petitioner was found guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rule prohibiting inmates from making unauthorized sales or exchanges of personally-owned items, based on charges that he had sold leather goods to other inmates, whose payments had been remitted to petitioner’s brother in Georgia. Substantial evidence of petitioner’s guilt was presented in the form of the misbehavior report, the testimony of the correction officer who wrote the report based upon his investigation into the matter, disbursement records transferring funds to petitioner’s brother, the testimony by the correction officer in charge of the facility’s hobby craft program and confidential testimony (see Matter of Dagnone v Goord, 297 AD2d 869 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 503 [2002]; Matter of Sanders v Goord, 275 AD2d 842, 843 [2000]). His exculpatory testimony presented an issue of credibility for resolution by the Hearing Officer (see Matter of Knight v Selsky, 297 AD2d 845 [2002]). The remaining issues raised herein have been examined and found to be without merit. Crew III, J.P., Peters, Spain, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Albany County) to review a determination of the Commissioner of Correctional Services which found petitioner guilty of violating a prison disciplinary rule. Petitioner was found guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rule that prohibits assaulting another inmate after a confidential source identified petitioner as the one who punched another inmate through a cell window. The misbehavior report, testimony at the hearing and confidential information provide substantial evidence of petitioner’s guilt (see Matter of Ward v Murphy, 302 AD2d 839, 839 [2003]). Although the Hearing Officer did not personally interview the confidential informant, a review of the confidential material establishes that the Hearing Officer made an independent assessment of the reliability and credibility of the information provided (see Matter of Nogueras v Selsky, 306 AD2d 586, 586 [2003]). To the extent that petitioner claims that the hearing was untimely completed without proper extensions, the 14-day time limitation for completion of a hearing is directory and not mandatory (see 7 NYCRR 251-5.1 [b]; Matter of Rudolph v Goord, 284 AD2d 640, 640 [2001], appeal dismissed 96 NY2d 936 [2001]; Matter of Bazelais v Goord, 278 AD2d 723, 723-724 [2000]). In any event, petitioner has established no substantial prejudice resulting from the delay (see Matter of Matos v Goord, 293 AD2d 855, 856 [2002]; Matter of Bazelais v Goord, supra at 723-724). Mercure, J.P, Peters, Carpinello, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Spain, J. Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Albany County) to review a determination of respondent which denied petitioner’s application for performance of duty disability retirement benefits. Petitioner was employed as a police officer for the City of Rye in Westchester County. On August 10,1991, he injured his lower back when he slipped and fell on wet grass during a pursuit of three youths. On November 16, 1992, while assigned to a local elementary school to provide drug awareness resistance education, petitioner injured his back again when he bent over to retrieve a tube containing posters. In March 1998, he applied for performance of duty disability retirement benefits with respect to both incidents. Following the initial denial of his application, petitioner requested a hearing and a redetermination. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer denied the application, finding that petitioner failed to satisfy his burden of proving that his permanent back injury was related to the 1991 or 1992 incidents. Respondent accepted the Hearing Officer’s findings and this CPLR article 78 proceeding ensued. We confirm. Both medical experts in this case agreed that petitioner suffers from a permanent disability related to his back which prevents him from performing the duties of a police officer. They provided conflicting testimony, however, on whether petitioner’s back condition is causally related to the incidents of 1991 and 1992. Jack Stern, the neurosurgeon who performed lumbar fusion surgery on petitioner in June 1997, testified that the incidents in question resulted in petitioner’s permanent disability but, later in his testimony, he declined to render an opinion regarding the proximate cause of the disability. Mary Godesky, the orthopedic surgeon for the New York State and Local Police and Fire Retirement System, opined that petitioner’s disability was not causally related to the incidents in question. She based her opinion on the fact that an MRI done in 1993 disclosed only a not uncommon small disc herniation at L4/5, while studies done subsequent to 1997 evidenced problems below that level, at L5/S1, and that surgery was undertaken to alleviate these symptoms. Godesky further stated that petitioner’s disability was attributable to degenerative changes in his spine and not these incidents or necessarily due to trauma. Respondent is vested with the authority to weigh conflicting medical evidence and to credit the opinion of Godesky over that of Stern (see Matter of Maida v McCall, 305 AD2d 929, 930 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 511 [2003]; Matter of Decker v McCall, 305 AD2d 782, 783 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 512 [2003]) and, since substantial evidence supports respondent’s determination, we decline to disturb it. Mercure, J.P., Peters, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed October 3, 2002, which ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because her employment was terminated due to misconduct. Claimant was discharged from her employment as a mail sorter on the grounds that she disregarded the employer’s work rules, was insubordinate and disrupted the work place. The record establishes that claimant attempted to remove a paper jam from a mail sorting machine with a hair pin. When a supervisor told her that in accordance with the employer’s rules she should have contacted a mechanic or supervisor in order to prevent injury to herself or damage to the machine, claimant began yelling and became argumentative. Claimant thereafter refused the supervisor’s order to go home for the rest of the day and was ultimately escorted from the premises by security. Substantial evidence supports the decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board that claimant engaged in disqualifying misconduct. Failure to abide by an employer’s rules can constitute disqualifying misconduct (see Matter of Graham [Commissioner of Labor], 305 AD2d 922 [2003]). Whether claimant was aware of the employer’s rule regarding the postal equipment created a credibility issue for the Board to resolve (see Matter of Gibson [Commissioner of Labor], 250 AD2d 906 [1998]; Matter of Abenoza [Hartnett], 176 AD2d 427 [1991]). In any event, given claimant’s disruptive and insubordinate behavior in the workplace, despite repeated warnings to stop, there is no basis to disturb the Board’s decision (see Matter of Mercurio [Commissioner of Labor], 301 AD2d 939 [2003]). Cardona, EJ., Mercure, Peters, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Mercure, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (McNamara, J.), entered July 24, 2002 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to, inter alia, review the results of a Department of Health audit for the September 1999 reporting period. Sylcox Health Care Facilities (hereinafter the facility) formerly operated a state-licensed 190-bed nursing home located in the Town of Newburgh, Orange County that participated in the Medicaid reimbursement program. This appeal arises from a Department of Health audit of the facility’s September 1999 “patient review instruments” (hereinafter PRIs), which contain assessments of the condition of residents in health care facilities. PRIs are used in determining the direct component of a facility’s operating costs and the daily Medicaid rate received by the facility. Based upon the information in the PRIs, a facility’s residents are assigned to Resource Utilization Group (hereinafter RUG) categories. Residents using greater resources will be placed in a higher RUG category, increasing the facility’s case mix index and the concomitant amount of reimbursement that it receives. As pertinent here, a resident will be placed in a higher RUG category if he or she receives restorative, as opposed to maintenance, therapy. The results of the audit indicated that several of the facility’s residents had been misclassified. The errors primarily involved the placement of patients receiving maintenance therapy into the restorative therapy category. Accordingly, the Department reduced the facility’s reimbursement rate to reflect the results of the audit. Petitioner thereafter commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding seeking to annul the audit findings with respect to 12 of its residents. Supreme Court determined that a rational basis existed for the determinations and dismissed the petition. Petitioner appeals. A patient may be placed in the restorative therapy category only if £‘[t]here is positive potential for improved functional status within a short and predictable period of time. [The] [t]herapy plan of care and progress notes should support that [the] patient has this potential/is improving” (10 NYCRR 86-2.30 [i] [27]). The Department provides a clarification sheet to nursing homes that interprets 10 NYCRR 86-2.30 (i) (27) as requiring that ££[t]here must be a positive potential for significant improvement in a resident’s functional status within a short and predictable period of time. Consequently, the therapy plan of care should support that the resident has this potential and is improving.” Petitioner challenges this interpretation insofar as it requires a showing of actual improvement, asserting that the regulation requires only that the patient has the potential for improvement. We need only observe on this point that the Court of Appeals recently rejected an identical argument in Matter of Elcor Health Servs. v Novello (100 NY2d 273 [2003]), holding that the Department’s “interpretation does not conflict with the plain language of the regulation, is neither arbitrary and capricious nor irrational and, as a result, should not be disturbed” (id. at 280). In addition, we reject as meritless petitioner’s assertion that the form used by auditors in determining whether a resident is receiving restorative therapy imposes requirements which “exceed” those contained in the interpretation set forth in the clarification sheet. Specifically, petitioner challenges the requirement that an auditor find that a “patient’s condition is realistically expected to improve significantly within a reasonable (and generally predictable) period of time” on the ground that the words “realistically” and “significantly” are not contained within 10 NYCRR 86-2.30 (i) (27). We conclude, however, that the audit form simply mirrors the interpretation set forth in the clarification sheet and upheld in Matter of Elcor Health Servs. v Novello (supra at 279-280). As such, the form cannot be said to be arbitrary and capricious or irrational. With respect to the specific PRIs challenged, petitioner asserts that patient progress reports demonstrate that nine of the residents found to be receiving maintenance therapy showed actual improvement and, thus, those residents were properly classified as receiving restorative therapy. Contrary to petitioner’s argument, however, a facility’s patient progress reports are not dispositive as to whether the patients’ restorative therapy resulted in actual improvement. Indeed, to find such progress reports dispositive would defeat the very purpose of performing an audit of a facility’s PRIs, as the Department is authorized to do (see 10 NYCRR 86-2.30 [e] [5]). Here, the auditor relied upon nursing notes, medical records, reported activities of daily living scores, and monthly summaries, as well as patient progress notes, in determining that the nine residents were misclassified. This evidence provided a rational basis for the Department’s determinations with respect to those residents and we will not disturb them here (see generally Matter of Pell v Board of Educ., 34 NY2d 222, 231 [1974]; Matter of Poster v Strough, 299 AD2d 127, 140-143 [2002]). Similarly, the Department’s determination that a resident was misclassified as “clinically complex” is supported by physician notes. To qualify as a physician’s visit, an examination must be personally conducted by a physician, nurse practitioner or physician’s assistant (see 10 NYCRR 86-2.30 [i] [28]). Here, physician’s notes suggest that' the patient was examined only twice in a four-week period, instead of the four times required to deem a patient clinically complex. Petitioner additionally argues that the Department unreasonably refused to correct a PRI indicating that a resident received restorative occupational therapy, when in fact the resident received restorative physical therapy. Petitioner relies upon 10 NYCRR 86-2.30 (e) (5), which provides, in pertinent part: “Upon completion of a department on-site review . . . the department, in order to ensure accuracy of the patient review form (PRI), shall correct, where necessary, a residential health care facility’s assessment of its patient case mix intensity.” On its face, however, this regulation requires only that the Department correct the facility’s case mix index, using the results of the audit; it does not require correction of PRIs. Instead, it is health care facilities that have the responsibility of correcting mistakes and omissions in their PRIs within five days of the facilities’ receipt of the Department’s written acknowledgment of their PRI submissions (see 10 NYCRR 86-2.30 [e] [4]). Accordingly, we conclude that the Department did not act arbitrarily and capriciously in refusing to correct the PRI at issue. Finally, we have reviewed petitioner’s remaining contentions and determined that they are either unpreserved or meritless. Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Peters and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs. In contrast, a patient is considered to be receiving maintenance therapy if “[tjherapy is provided to maintain and/or retard deterioration of current functional/ADL [activities of daily living] status. [The] [t]herapy plan of care and progress notes should support that [the] patient has no potential for further or any significant improvement” (10 NYCRR 86-2.30 [i] [27]).
Mercure, J.E Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed July 24, 2002, which ruled that claimant’s schedule loss of use award be suspended for a period of time. In October 1999, claimant, a food services worker, filed two separate claims for workers’ compensation benefits. Occupational disease to claimant’s shoulders was established based on the first injury, which occurred on January 4, 1999. Although an award was directed, claimant was found to have no compensable lost time for the period running from December 13, 1999 to February 14, 2000. The second claim arose from work-related injuries sustained on January 19, 1999 to claimant’s hands and wrists. Claimant established an occupational disease of bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome and a temporary total disability award was directed at the rate of $145.89 per week, covering the December 13, 1999 to February 14, 2000 time period. Following a subsequent hearing regarding claimant’s January 4, 1999 injury, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge awarded claimant a 43% schedule loss of use of her right arm and a 30% schedule loss of use of her left arm, entitling claimant to a total of 227.76 weeks of benefits. At the hearing, the State Insurance Fund—the employer’s workers’ compensation carrier—argued that since claimant, in connection with her January 19, 1999 injury, had already received compensation at the maximum rate for total disability for the December 13, 1999 to February 14, 2000 time period, that period should be excluded from the schedule loss of use award. The Workers’ Compensation Law Judge disagreed and, without excepting that time period, directed the State Insurance Fund to continue compensating claimant at a rate of $140.47 per week. On review, the Workers’ Compensation Board reversed, finding that, in order to prevent an overlap in awards, payment of the schedule loss of use award must exclude the December 13, 1999 to February 14, 2000 time period. Claimant appeals. We reverse. Because a schedule award is simply the method or formula by which the total amount of a compensation award is to be measured, “ ‘[t]he payment of the schedule award is not allocable to any particular period of disability’ ” (Matter of Briggs v Village of Hamilton, 136 AD2d 442, 444 [1988], quoting Matter of Lynch v Board of Educ. of City of N.Y., 1 AD2d 362, 365 [1956], affd 3 NY2d 871 [1957]; see Matter of Fox v Crosbie-Brownlie, Inc., 284 AD2d 42, 44 [2001]). That is, “a schedule award is ‘independent of the time an employee actually loses from work’ ” (Matter of Fox v Crosbie-Brownlie, Inc., supra at 44, quoting Matter of Landgrebe v County of Westchester, 57 NY2d 1, 6 [1982]). Thus, a schedule award may not be viewed as including a specific period of disability (Matter of Fox v Crosbie-Brownlie, Inc., supra at 44). We conclude that the schedule award granted for claimant’s January 4, 1999 injury is not allocable to any particular period, including the December 13, 1999 to February 14, 2000 period. Thus, the schedule award cannot be deemed to overlap with claimant’s temporary total disability award covering that period. The cases relied upon by the State Insurance Fund do not compel a contrary result. Those cases establish that the total amount received from schedule and nonschedule awards may not exceed the maximum allowable rate when the nonschedule award is based upon a finding of permanent disability (see Matter of Soper v Gouverneur Talc Co., 243 AD2d 1001, 1002-1003 [1997]; Matter of Salvet v Union Carbide Linde Div., 135 AD2d 965, 966 [1987]; Matter of Wilkosz v Symington Gould Corp., 14 AD2d 408, 409-410 [1961], affd 14 NY2d 739 [1964]). When an award is based on a finding of permanent disability, the benefit is intended to recompense a claimant for the loss of all of his or her earning capacity on a permanent basis—i.e., without respect to any particular time frame (see Matter of Soper v Gouverneur Talc Co., supra at 1002-1003). “Logic dictates that there can be no disability greater than total permanent disability, and to attempt to add something to the compensation fixed by the law for such total permanent disability creates an overlapping of compensation which finds no sanction in the law” (Matter of Wilkosz v Symington Gould Corp., supra at 410). Thus, while a schedule award is not allocable to any particular time frame, such an award may not be added to a nonschedule award for total permanent disability because the nonschedule award represents the maximum compensation to which the claimant is entitled for all time. Here, in contrast, the nonschedule award is based upon a finding of temporary disability during a limited time frame—i.e., the award is not meant to reimburse claimant for the loss of all future earning capacity, but only that experienced during a defined period of time. Inasmuch as claimant’s schedule award is not allocable to the time period during which she received temporary total disability or based on any actual period during which claimant was prevented from earning full wages due to disability (see Matter of Fox v Crosbie-Brownlie, Inc., supra at 43-44), the schedule and nonschedule awards cannot be said to have overlapped. Accordingly, we conclude that claimant did not receive more than the maximum allowable rate during any given time period. Spain, Carpinello, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is reversed, without costs, and matter remitted to the Workers’ Compensation Board for recalculation of claimant’s award for the period of December 13, 1999 to February 14, 2000.
Carpinello, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed September 4, 2002, which, inter alia, denied claimant’s request to reopen the case for further development of the record. On November 15, 1999, decedent was employed as a laborer for a construction company and had been assigned to work at a distant job site. He was expected to report to work at 7:00 a.m. At 5:45 a.m., while driving his personal vehicle, he was involved in a fatal motor vehicle accident. Claimant, decedent’s mother and the administrator of his estate, filed a claim for workers’ compensation death benefits. Following various hearings, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge (hereinafter WCLJ) disallowed the claim, finding that the accident did not arise out of and during the course of decedent’s employment. In her application to the Workers’ Compensation Board for review of the WCLJ’s decision, claimant requested further development of the record to introduce the testimony of additional witnesses. The Board denied claimant’s request and affirmed the WCLJ’s decision. This appeal ensued. Claimant contends that the Board erroneously declined to review the main issue before the WCLJ, namely, whether decedent’s accident arose out of and during the course of his employment and that, therefore, the decision should be reversed and the matter remitted to the Board. Based upon our review of the Board’s decision, we agree. Workers’ Compensation Law § 23 requires the Board to include in its decision “a statement of the facts which formed the basis of its action on the issues raised.” “[W]e have previously held that a Board decision that adopts a WCLJ’s findings of facts after an independent review of the entire record is sufficient to comply with such statutory requirement” (Matter of Floyd v Millard Fillmore Hosp., 299 AD2d 610, 612 [2002]; see Matter of Maliszewska v Dupuy, 289 AD2d 683, 684 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 612 [2002]). No such recitation is contained in the Board decision at issue. Although the decision makes a brief reference to the fact that “claimant died in a motor vehicle accident while going to his job on November 15, 1999,” it makes no mention of the factual findings of the WCLJ supporting the conclusion that the accident did not arise out of and during the course of his employment. Rather, the substance of the decision addresses only the issue of whether the case should be reopened for further record development, a determination with which we do not disagree. Nonetheless, in light of the Board’s failure to confirm that it adopted the WCLJ’s findings of fact after an independent review of the record, the decision must be reversed and the matter remitted to the Board for further proceedings. Mercure, J.P., Peters, Spain and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is reversed, without costs, and matter remitted to the Workers’ Compensation Board for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Lahtinen, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed September 13, 2002, which ruled that claimant had sustained a compensable injury and awarded workers’ compensation benefits. Claimant worked for the employer as a data analyst in an office at the World Trade Center in Manhattan. He was traveling by subway to work on the morning of September 11, 2001, when all passengers were informed that the train would not be continuing to the station located in the World Trade Center complex. Claimant transferred to a different train from which he emerged one block from One World Trade Center and two blocks from Two World Trade Center, the building in which his office was located. As he stood on the sidewalk observing the damage incurred by the first tower, the second tower exploded. Claimant was injured when he was struck by flying debris from the second explosion. The Workers’ Compensation Board ruled that claimant’s accident was compensable having arisen out of and in the course of his employment. The employer and its workers’ compensation carrier (hereinafter collectively referred to as the carrier) appeal, contending that claimant was not injured in the course of his employment (see Workers’ Compensation Law § 2 [7]; §10). In general, an employee will not be considered to be working within the scope of his or her employment while traveling to and from work unless there is a sufficient nexus between the employer’s premises and the employee’s injury (see Matter of Neacosia v New York Power Auth., 85 NY2d 471, 474-475 [1995]). Certain exceptions to this rule exist and are enhanced as the employee draws physically nearer to the workplace until he or she has entered a “gray area” where the risks of travel to or from work may be said to merge with the risks of employment (Matter of Husted v Seneca Steel Serv., 41 NY2d 140, 144 [1976]; see Matter of Davenport v New York State Senate, 283 AD2d 880, 881 [2001]). The standard to be applied “is whether there is such a relationship existing between the accident and the employment as to bring the former within the range of the latter” (Matter of Husted v Seneca Steel Serv., supra at 144; see Matter of Moore v Ogden Allied, 284 AD2d 624, 625-626 [2001]). In our view, substantial evidence supports the Board’s finding that claimant’s injuries arose out of and in the course of his employment (see Matter of Arana v Hillside Manor-Nursing Ctr, 251 AD2d 715, 716 [1998]). Its decision, accordingly, will not be disturbed. Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Carpinello and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs. The Board modified the decision of the Workers’ Compensation Law Judge by rescinding an award for serious facial disfigurement on the ground that the award was premature, as more time was required to obtain expert medical evidence regarding the extent and permanency of claimant’s facial injuries.
Spain, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Ulster County (Bruhn, J.), rendered July 23, 1999, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of murder in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree (two counts)! Following a jury trial, defendant was convicted of, among other crimes, second degree intentional murder for the unwitnessed May 26, 1998 shooting death of Jefferey Hurd, his neighbor. Hurd had gone for a walk in the woods at approximately 7:45 p.m. and was later found with fatal gunshot wounds near the end of Reservoir Road, a remote area in the Town of Marlboro, Ulster County. The evidence connecting defendant to Hurd’s death included the ballistics analysis of the projectiles removed from the victim, which confirmed that they had been fired from the .38 caliber revolver found strapped to defendant’s waist during questioning at the State Police barracks in the early morning hours of the next day. DNA analysis of the socks worn by defendant at that time revealed the presence of the victim’s blood. The apparent motive, reflected in defendant’s statements to police and others, was defendant’s belief that the victim had recently taken items from his home. Upon his conviction, defendant was sentenced as a second felony offender to consecutive prison terms of 25 years to life on the murder count and seven years for criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, and concurrent one-year terms for the two counts of criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree, relating to his possession of other weapons in his home. Defendant appeals, raising a host of challenges, all of which have been reviewed and determined not to warrant disturbing either his conviction or his sentence. At the outset, defendant challenges County Court’s decision, following a hearing, denying his motion to suppress his statements to police, which he contends were the product of a custodial interrogation without advisement of Miranda warnings. Consistent with County Court’s findings, however, the suppression testimony established that around 11:45 p.m., State Police arrived at the scene and questioned the residents, including defendant, who lived near where the victim’s body was discovered, briefly asking what they had heard or seen and about their activities that evening. Defendant and several of his neighbors then voluntarily accompanied town police and State Troopers back to the State Police barracks for further questioning. Defendant was transported to the barracks in the rear of an unmarked police car, arriving 20 to 25 minutes later at about 1:15 a.m., taken to an interview room, periodically questioned and then left alone. He was not handcuffed, frisked or accused of any crime and was allowed to move freely in between questioning. Defendant recounted that he had left home to go to the store around 7:20 p.m. but, having misplaced his wallet, went to his mother’s house and then to his workplace, returning home to learn that Hurd was missing. He later admitted to possessing several rifles and signed a written statement to that effect around 3:30 a.m.; around 4:00 a.m., Miranda warnings were read to him in view of his federal parole status; he indicated that he understood the warnings and consented to continuing to speak with the officers. Defendant never asked to leave or that questioning cease, he was not confronted with any incriminating evidence and the atmosphere of the interview was not in any manner inordinately coercive or unduly long (see People v Warren, 300 AD2d 692, 694 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 621 [2003]). During further inquiry around 6:30 a.m. regarding his wallet and bulges apparent in his pants pockets, defendant emptied his pockets, producing a pouch of bullets, and a subsequent frisk uncovered a loaded .38 caliber handgun strapped to the back of his waist. Defendant was placed under arrest and searched, revealing 35 to 40 rounds of ammunition. Miranda warnings were repeated, defendant again waived them and admitted to purchasing the gun years ago, stated that it never left his possession and that the lost wallet story was made up, but denied shooting Hurd. The testimony fully supports County Court’s conclusions that the questioning of defendant was investigatory and defendant was not in custody until after the gun was discovered, at which point he was no longer free to leave and Miranda warnings were repeated (see People v Centono, 76 NY2d 837, 838 [1990]; People v Yukl, 25 NY2d 585, 588-589 [1969], cert denied 400 US 851 [1970]). We find no basis upon which to disturb County Court’s decision to discredit defendant’s testimony that he went to the barracks involuntarily and repeatedly requested the presence of an attorney during questioning and never received Miranda warnings. Further, neither the fact that defendant was known to be on federal parole nor the fact that around 3:00 a.m. the State Trooper who had interviewed defendant instructed him to stay in the interview room suggests that defendant was in custody earlier. Also rejected is defendant’s challenge to the sufficiency of the search warrant application, which we find provided sufficient information “ ‘to support a reasonable belief that evidence of a crime may be found in a certain place’ ” (People v German, 251 AD2d 900, 901 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 897 [1998], quoting People v McCulloch, 226 AD2d 848, 849 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 1070 [1996]). Contrary to defendant’s claims, the affiant investigator was entitled to rely on the personal knowledge of fellow police officers (see People v Telesco, 207 AD2d 920, 920 [1994]) and the Aguilar-Spinelli test is inapplicable as it only applies to “ ‘information supplied by an undisclosed informant’ ” (People v David, 234 AD2d 787, 787-788 [1996], lv denied 89 NY2d 1034 [1997], quoting People v Martinez, 80 NY2d 549, 552 [1992]). With regard to the trial evidence, defendant’s claim that the jury’s verdict on the weapons possession counts should be reversed is meritless. Defendant’s conviction under count 2 was based upon his actual possession of the loaded .38 caliber revolver, the murder weapon, and indeed, defendant testified to owning such a revolver (see Penal Law § 265.02 [4]). Defendant’s convictions under counts 3 and 4 are supported by the discovery during the execution of the search warrant of a .22 caliber Huger rifle model 1022 and an SKS 7.62 Russian rifle, respectively, concealed in defendant’s home (see Penal Law § 265.01 [4]). In his statement to police, defendant admitted to owning rifles and, at trial, admitted his prior felony convictions and that he owned .22 caliber rifles which his live-in girlfriend had nothing to do with, undermining any claim that he did not exercise dominion and control over them (see People v Kirby, 280 AD2d 775, 779 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 920 [2001]; see also Penal Law § 10.00 [8]; People v Manini, 79 NY2d 561 [1992]). We find that the evidence is legally sufficient to support the jury’s verdict on these counts and that the verdict is not against the weight of credible evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]; People v Myers, 265 AD2d 598, 600 [1999]). Next, defendant contends that a multitude of evidentiary errors deprived him of a fair trial. We disagree. The People’s CPL 710.30 notice provided the sum and substance of defendant’s many statements to police recounted at trial, and a verbatim recitation of every utterance was not required (see People v Steisi, 257 AD2d 582, 582 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 979 [1999]; People v Laporte, 184 AD2d 803, 804 [1992], lv denied 80 NY2d 905 [1992]). We further find no abuse of discretion in County Court’s ruling precluding cross-examination of one of the State Police investigators regarding defendant’s claims that a certain underground group was after him, causing him to fear for his life and justifying his possession of weapons. Defendant himself was allowed to testify at length in support of this duress defense (see Penal Law § 40.00) and the court reasonably concluded that the defense efforts to raise this issue were an otherwise improper attempt to raise the defense of mental disease or defect (see Penal Law § 40.15; see also People v Berk, 88 NY2d 257, 265 [1996], cert denied 519 US 859 [1996]) without having filed notice of intent to do so (see CPL 250.10). Defense counsel expressly stated that the evidence was not a defense to the murder charge and, thus, it did not relate to a defense of extreme emotional disturbance or justification, neither of which was raised by defendant (see Penal Law §§ 35.05, 125.25 [1] [a]). However, we find merit in defendant’s contention that County Court erred in allowing the People on redirect of one of the State Police investigators to elicit the facts of certain unsolved crimes in a nearby county. While defense counsel had elicited on cross-examination that the investigator had received a call from another State Trooper about defendant concerning unsolved rapes and robberies—as part of the defense theory that defendant, a parolee, was the only suspect in this murder from the outset and not free to leave—it was error for the court to have ruled that defendant “opened the door” to an expanded inquiry, on redirect, regarding the facts of these uncharged violent crimes and the investigation of defendant which followed (see People v Melendez, 55 NY2d 445, 451-453 [1982]; cf. People v Conway, 297 AD2d 398, 399-400 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 581 [2003]). The People demonstrated no need to clarify or explain that testimony, and the redirect questioning unnecessarily bolstered the inference that defendant was a suspect in those crimes. However, since the proof of defendant’s guilt is overwhelming and the prejudicial questioning about the crime details was limited, we find that the error was harmless (see People v Crimmins, 36 NY2d 230, 241-242 [1975]). Further, we find no error in the admission of evidence of defendant’s attempted escape as proof of defendant’s consciousness of guilt, which defendant had an opportunity to rebut (see People v Carradero, 227 AD2d 413 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 981 [1996]; People v Fama, 212 AD2d 542, 543 [1995], lvs denied 86 NY2d 734 [1995], 87 NY2d 901 [1995]). With respect to County Court’s charge to the jury regarding the burden of proof, as no objection was raised at trial, defendant’s contentions are unpreserved (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620, 621 [1983]). In any event, the court’s charge, viewed as a whole, did not impermissibly shift the burden of proof to defendant. Additionally, the charge did not create the misimpression that the issue of custody was a question of law already decided by the court against defendant, and the court explained to the jury at length that the issue of the voluntariness of defendant’s statements to police was for the jury to decide as a factual matter, including whether he requested an attorney, was in custody or received Miranda warnings (see GPL 60.45, 710.70 [3]). Finally, we find no error or abuse of discretion in County Court’s imposition of consecutive sentences for intentional second degree murder and possession of the weapon used in the murder (see Penal Law § 70.25 [2]). At trial, the evidence established that defendant admitted that he carried the .38 caliber revolver on his person at all times prior to its seizure. Thus, the crime of possessing a loaded firearm (see Penal Law § 265.02 [4]), while continuous, was completed long before he formed the intent to kill Hurd with this weapon, and shooting him was a discrete act (see Penal Law § 125.25 [1]; People v Salcedo, 92 NY2d 1019, 1021-1022 [1998]; People v Brown, 80 NY2d 361, 364 [1992]; People v Okafore, 72 NY2d 81, 83 [1988]). As the offenses were based on separate and distinct acts (see People v Laureano, 87 NY2d 640, 643 [1996]), consecutive sentencing was authorized and appropriate (see People v Salcedo, supra at 1022; People v McNeil, 273 AD2d 608, 610-611 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 868 [2000]; see also Penal Law § 70.25 [2]). Defendant’s remaining claims have been examined and determined to lack merit. Crew III, J.P., Peters, Carpinello and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Rose, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Schenectady County (Catena, J.), rendered September 25, 2000, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crime of driving while intoxicated (two counts) and the traffic infraction of failing to drive on the right side of the road. After a jury trial, defendant was convicted of, among other things, two counts of driving while intoxicated as a felony based upon the testimony of the arresting officer that he observed defendant’s vehicle swerve across the highway’s double yellow lines and then administered a number of field sobriety tests which defendant failed. The testimony of a second officer established that a Datamaster chemical test administered shortly after defendant’s arrest had shown a blood alcohol level of 0.31%. During trial, County Court denied defendant’s requests to compel the attendance and testimony of David Rockefeller, a certified instructor in the operation of the Datamaster testing unit, and to have the prior hearing testimony of William Rybicki, a passenger in defendant’s vehicle at the time of his arrest, admitted due to Rybicki’s unavailability at trial. Defendant now appeals, arguing that County Court’s refusal to grant his requests for a material witness order pursuant to CPL 620.20 as to Rockefeller, and for admission of Rybicki’s prior testimony pursuant to CPL 670.10, deprived him of due process and the right to present testimony in his defense. We cannot agree. County Court properly refused to issue a material witness order as to Rockefeller because, admittedly, he knew nothing about defendant’s case and, while he may have been the only certified Datamaster instructor employed by the Division of Criminal Justice Services, defense counsel failed to show that he was the only person sufficiently knowledgeable to testify about the operation of the Datamaster and possibly impeach the officer who administered the test to defendant (see People v Anderson, 168 AD2d 360, 360 [1990], lv denied 78 NY2d 953 [1991]). As to the admission of Rybicki’s prior testimony, which would have been material since he witnessed the events preceding defendant’s arrest, defendant was required to establish, among other things, his inability, after the exercise of due diligence in good faith, to secure the witness’s attendance (see People v Diaz, 97 NY2d 109, 116 [2001]; People v Arroyo, 54 NY2d 567, 573-574 [1982], cert denied 456 US 979 [1982]). Although defense counsel knew four months prior to trial that Rybicki resided in Florida, the month in which the trial would occur and the substance of his testimony, no effort was made during that time to secure Rybicki’s attendance. Counsel also learned the actual trial date nearly one week in advance. Nonetheless, there was no effort to contact Rybicki until a few days before trial and then only by leaving telephone messages to which Rybicki did not respond. A material witness certificate for Rybicki, pursuant to CPL 640.10 (3), was not requested until the day before trial was to begin. It was issued immediately, but when defendant made his CPL 670.10 application after the prosecution rested, the certificate had not yet been served on Rybicki. In view of these last minute and cursory efforts, County Court did not err in denying defendant permission to present Rybicki’s prior testimony to the jury. Mercure, J.P., Peters, Spain and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Rose, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Albany County (Breslin, J.), rendered May 16, 2001, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of rape in the first degree and burglary in the first degree. Defendant was indicted for rape in the first degree and burglary in the first degree (two counts). The charges arose from his sexual contact with the victim in her home and were supported by the victim’s description of the perpetrator as well as DNA evidence that matched the semen recovered from the victim to a blood sample taken from defendant pursuant to a search warrant. In connection with defendant’s suppression motions, the parties stipulated that the People would be precluded from using at trial any oral statement made by defendant to police after he was in custody. A jury convicted defendant of rape in the first degree and one count of burglary in the first degree, and County Court sentenced him to concurrent prison terms of 25 years. We now affirm. Initially, defendant contends that County Court erred in failing to suppress evidence that allegedly was the fruit of the statements he made to police during a concededly illegal interrogation. Specifically, defendant asserts that his statements facilitated the police investigation by revealing that he knew the victim, saw her on the evening in question, was familiar with the building where she lived, and had a key to the building when he was a tenant there. This argument is unpersuasive, however, as all of this information had already been obtained by the police from the victim and her landlord prior to their interrogation of defendant. Defendant also contends that there was no proof of vaginal penetration or forcible compulsion as to the rape charge (see Penal Law § 130.35 [1]), or physical injury as to the burglary charge (see Penal Law § 140.30 [2]). Our review of the legal sufficiency of the evidence considers whether, viewing the evidence in a light most favorable to the prosecution, the People established a prima facie case (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]; People v Zabala, 290 AD2d 578, 578 [2002], lv denied 97 NY2d 735 [2002]). Mindful that a different finding would not have been unreasonable if the jury had credited defendant’s claim that the sexual contact was consensual, we have also “ ‘weighted] the relative probative force of conflicting testimony and the relative strength of conflicting inferences that may be drawn from the testimony’ ” (People v Bleakley, supra at 495, quoting People ex rel. MacCracken v Miller, 291 NY 55, 62 [1943]). As to the charge of rape in the first degree, evidence of vaginal penetration was provided through the victim’s testimony that although defendant initially was unable to penetrate her vagina, he ultimately succeeded. The victim also testified that defendant jumped on her, covered her head with a pillow, held her down, and told her that he had a gun and would kill her if she tried to look at him. This testimony, combined with the presence of semen and injuries on the victim’s genital area, were more than sufficient to establish the challenged elements of the rape charge (cf. People v Carroll, 95 NY2d 375, 383-384 [2000]; People v Smith, 302 AD2d 677, 679 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 543 [2003]). As to the burglary charge, the testimony at trial established that as a result of defendant’s attack, the victim sustained cuts to her forehead and neck, had a layer of skin removed and a blood vessel broken in the area of her vagina, and experienced severe pain in that area during a subsequent medical examination. This evidence, combined with the victim’s description of the pain she endured during defendant’s several attempts to penetrate her, sufficiently established the requisite physical injury (see People v Black, 304 AD2d 905, 908 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 578 [2003]; People v Jackson, 169 AD2d 887, 889-890 [1991], lv denied 77 NY2d 996 [1991]). We also conclude, after according due deference to the jury’s “ ‘opportunity to view the witnesses, hear the testimony and observe [the] demeanor’ of individuals who appear before it” (People v Zabala, supra at 579, quoting People v Bleakley, supra at 495), that the appropriate weight was given to the evidence. The jury’s choice to believe the victim and discredit defendant’s testimony was not “manifestly erroneous [or] plainly unjustified by the evidence” (People v Corporan, 169 AD2d 643, 643 [1991], lv denied 77 NY2d 959 [1991]). We have considered defendant’s remaining arguments and find them to be equally unpersuasive. Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Carpinello and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Spain, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Chemung County (Buckley, J.), rendered December 3, 2001, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of criminal mischief in the fourth degree. Defendant was indicted for criminal mischief in the third degree, a felony, after kicking a van belonging to a local televi- . sion station causing approximately $1,600 in damage to the vehicle. Pursuant to a negotiated plea agreement, he pleaded guilty to criminal mischief in the fourth degree and was sentenced to serve three years’ probation and pay restitution. Defendant now appeals, and we affirm. Defendant’s challenge to the voluntariness of his plea is not preserved given his failure to move to withdraw his plea or to vacate the judgment of conviction (see People v Angus, 303 AD2d 829, 829 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 536 [2003]; People v Camp, 302 AD2d 629, 630 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 593 [2003]). We nevertheless exercise our discretion to address the issue and reject defendant’s contention that County Court abused its discretion in accepting his plea without first holding a CPL article 730 hearing to determine his competency despite his history of mental illness (see People v Dover, 227 AD2d 804, 805 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 984 [1996]). “A defendant is presumed competent and a trial court is not required to order an examination unless it has reason to believe that the defendant is an ‘incapacitated person’ ” (People v Stonis, 246 AD2d 911, 911 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 883 [1998], quoting CPL 730.10 [1] and 730.30 [1]), i.e., that he or she “as a result of mental disease or defect lacks capacity to understand the proceedings against him [or her] or to assist in his [or her] own defense” (CPL 730.10 [1]; see People v Stonis, supra at 912). A trial court is not required to hold a CPL article 730 hearing simply because a defendant has a history of mental illness (see People v Morgan, 87 NY2d 878, 879-880 [1995]; People v Stonis, supra at 912), and such a history does not necessarily render a defendant incompetent to enter a knowing and voluntary plea (see People v Greene, 274 AD2d 842, 843 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 963 [2000]). Here, County Court conducted a lengthy colloquy during which defendant not only answered the court’s questions affirming his understanding of his rights, the terms of the plea agreement and the nature of the proceedings, but he also affirmatively asked questions for clarification. There is nothing in this record indicating that defendant lacked the capacity to enter a knowing, intelligent and voluntary plea and, accordingly, we find no abuse of discretion in the court’s acceptance of his plea without holding a competency hearing {see id. at 843; People v Stonis, supra at 912). We also are unpersuaded by defendant’s argument that defense counsel’s failure to request a CPL article 730 hearing deprived him of the effective assistance of counsel. Defendant was charged with a felony and facing a maximum of four years in state prison {see Penal Law § 70.00 [2] [e]; [4]; § 145.05), and defense counsel made pretrial motions and successfully negotiated a plea agreement whereby defendant avoided a felony conviction and was sentenced to probation without jail time. As discussed, defendant exhibited his understanding of his rights and expressed his satisfaction with defense counsel’s representation on the record. Under these circumstances, we cannot say that defense counsel’s recommendation to defendant that he plead guilty “was other than a ‘sound defense strategy’ ” (People v Perrotti, 257 AD2d 776, 778 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 901 [1999], quoting People v Johnson, 91 AD2d 782, 783 [1982]) and hold, therefore, that defendant was not deprived of meaningful representation (see People v Perrotti, supra at 778; see also People v D’Adamo, 293 AD2d 869, 872 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 730 [2002]). Mercure, J.P, Carpinello, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Carpinello, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Schenectady County (Eidens, J.), rendered December 12, 2001, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of robbery in the first degree, burglary in the first degree (two counts), robbery in the second degree (two counts), assault in the second degree, criminal use of a firearm in the first degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, criminal use of a firearm in the second degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree. By 12-count indictment, defendant was charged with burglary, robbery and other crimes stemming from a street mugging and a home invasion in the City of Schenectady, Schenectady County. After a jury trial, defendant was convicted of the 10 counts of the indictment that related to the home invasion and acquitted of the remaining charges. County Court sentenced defendant to consecutive 25-year prison terms for his robbery in the first degree conviction and for one burglary in the first degree conviction, with lesser concurrent sentences on the remaining convictions. Defendant appeals. Initially, we reject defendant’s challenge to the legal sufficiency of the evidence. The trial testimony of several witnesses established that defendant and another individual forced their way into a residence, displayed several handguns and demanded money from individuals present in the home. A struggle ensued and defendant shot one of the victims in the shoulder. He and his cohort then fled with $35 stolen from the homeowner. Defendant testified that he had been visiting his grandmother in New York City at the time of the crime, a version of events corroborated by the testimony of his mother and a friend. Viewing this evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, a rational jury could have concluded beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant, while armed with a loaded firearm, unlawfully entered the home with intent to commit armed robbery, forcibly stole property with the aid of another and, in the course of the robbery, intentionally shot and injured a nonparticipant (see People v Taylor, 94 NY2d 910, 911 [2000]; People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620, 621 [1983]). Accordingly, we find this evidence legally sufficient to support each of defendant’s convictions. Further, viewing the evidence in a neutral light and deferring to the jury’s credibility determinations, we likewise conclude that the verdict was not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). We also reject defendant’s claim of ineffective assistance of counsel predicated on defense counsel’s failure to file a timely notice of alibi. Although defendant maintains that he was visiting his grandmother at the time of the crime, defense counsel did not give timely notice of this potential alibi witness. Counsel instead moved in limine during jury selection for leave to file a late notice of alibi, which motion was denied. A defense counsel’s failure to file a timely notice of alibi can constitute ineffective assistance if a defendant is prevented from presenting an alibi defense (see People v Barber, 202 AD2d 978, 979 [1994], lv denied 83 NY2d 908 [1994]). However, a claim of this type cannot properly be addressed on direct appeal because it requires speculation as to facts outside the record, namely, “the anticipated testimony of defendant’s desired witnesses and their likely effectiveness in supporting an alibi defense” (People v McDonald, 255 AD2d 688, 688 [1998]; see People v Watson, 269 AD2d 755, 756 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 806 [2000]). In any event, defendant and others testified at trial that he was in New York City at the relevant time and this claim was obviously rejected by the jury. Turning to defendant’s challenges to the legality and severity of his sentence, defendant primarily contends that County Court improperly imposed consecutive sentences for his robbery and burglary convictions. We disagree. Although concurrent sentences must be imposed “for two or more offenses committed through a single act or omission, or through an act or omission which in itself constituted one of the offenses and also was a material element of the other” (Penal Law § 70.25 [2]), consecutive sentences are permissible where the crimes involve separate and distinct actions (see People v Laureano, 87 NY2d 640, 643 [1996]; People v Brown, 80 NY2d 361, 364 [1992]). Here, the conduct supporting defendant’s robbery conviction was his forcible stealing of money while armed with a firearm, whereas the burglary conviction was based upon his unlawful entry into the home and subsequent shooting of a nonparticipant in the crime. Because these offenses involved separate and distinct actions, consecutive sentencing was permissible (see People v Lee, 92 NY2d 987, 989 [1998]). Finally, in light of the seriousness of this crime and the danger such conduct poses to the community, we cannot say that County Court’s imposition of the maximum allowable sentence for each conviction was an abuse of discretion and we see no extraordinary circumstances warranting modification of these sentences in the interest of justice (see People v Horsey, 304 AD2d 852, 854 [2003]; People v Dolphy, 257 AD2d 681, 685 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 872 [1999]). Crew III, J.P, Peters, Spain and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Peters, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Albany County (Herrick, J.), rendered March 20, 2002, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crime of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree. At the time of the execution of a search warrant for an apartment at 138 Grand Street in the City of Albany, defendant, Antonio Rivera, Keisha Lewis and defendant’s infant child were present. In a cabinet above the sink, the police recovered a quantity of crack cocaine and razor blades; plastic bags and a scale were found elsewhere in the apartment. Defendant and Rivera were arrested and defendant was charged in a two-count indictment with the crimes of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third and fifth degrees. Rivera entered into a plea agreement and defendant proceeded to trial. At trial, the People presented the testimony of numerous witnesses including John Monte, a detective, who stated that in response to pedigree information, defendant advised that he lived at the Grand Street apartment; Rivera stated that he lived on Morton Avenue. Donald Segal, owner of the Grand Street property, confirmed that defendant resided in an apartment at that address and that he was unfamiliar with Rivera. As the People’s case was based upon constructive possession, defendant proffered Rivera’s testimony which stated that he lived with defendant at the Grand Street apartment, albeit for just a couple of months. Rivera also admitted that the seized cocaine belonged to him, that he had been arrested for possession of cocaine and that he had pleaded guilty. At a charging conference, defense counsel requested a circumstantial evidence charge (see 1 CJI[NY] 9.05, at 475), providing County Court with case law to support his request. Counsel argued that such charge “must convey that the evidence must exclude beyond a reasonable doubt every reasonable hypothesis of innocence.” The court rejected counsel’s request and charged the standard circumstantial evidence charge since it “believ[ed] that the case ha[d] a mix of direct and circumstantial evidence.” Thus, the court did not advise the jury that the circumstantial facts proved must be “consistent with guilt and inconsistent with innocence, ... [or that] [t]he circumstantial facts proved must exclude to a moral certainty every hypothesis but guilt” (1 CJI[NY] 9.05, at 475). After extensive deliberation, readbacks and a reported deadlock, the jury returned a verdict convicting defendant of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree and acquitted him of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree. Defendant appeals and we reverse. Defendant was not observed in actual physical possession of the drugs found in the cabinet in his apartment and, although the People presented direct evidence of his dominion and control over the apartment, there was no direct evidence concerning his dominion or control over the drugs which were found there (see People v Brian, 84 NY2d 887, 889 [1994]). Thus, to find that defendant had control over the contraband, the drawing of an additional inference was required. For this reason, the circumstantial evidence charge requested by defense counsel was required (see People v David, 234 AD2d 787, 790 [1996], lv denied 89 NY2d 1034 [1997]). With Rivera testifying that he also resided in the apartment and that the drugs belonged to him, the evidence against defendant was clearly not overwhelming. For these reasons, we cannot conclude that the failure to give the proper circumstantial evidence charge constituted harmless error (see CPL 470.05 [1]; compare People v Brian, supra at 889). In so finding, we viewed the evidence, as we must, in a manner most favorable to the prosecution, with all reasonable inferences leaning in the People’s favor. As the Court of Appeals has cautioned: “it [is] not necessary that a circumstantial evidence charge use the words ‘moral certainty’ .... [However,] ‘the jury should be instructed in substance that it must appear that the inference of guilt is the only one that can fairly and reasonably be drawn from the facts, and that the evidence excludes beyond a reasonable doubt every reasonable hypothesis of innocence’ ” (People v Ford, 66 NY2d 428, 441 [1985], quoting People v Sanchez, 61 NY2d 1022, 1024 [1984]). As we believe that County Court’s failure to properly charge the jury raised “a danger legitimately associated with circumstantial evidence—that the trier of facts may leap logical gaps in the proof offered and draw unwarranted conclusions based on probabilities of low degree” (People v Ford, supra at 442), we reverse. Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Crew III and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, and matter remitted to the County Court of Albany County for a new trial on the second count of the indictment.
Kane, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Rensselaer County (McGrath, J.), rendered August 20, 2001, which revoked defendant’s probation and imposed a sentence of time served. In February 2000, the probation department filed a violation of probation petition alleging, among other things, that defendant failed to report to his probation officer on four specific occasions. That petition was subsequently withdrawn. The probation department filed a second violation petition in March 2001 alleging, among other things, that defendant failed to report to his probation officer on the four occasions listed in the February 2000 petition. Defense counsel unsuccessfully sought to dismiss, on double jeopardy and due process grounds, the portions of the second petition which had been included in the first petition. At the conclusion of a hearing, County Court found that defendant violated his probation by unjustifiably failing to report to his probation officer on two of the occasions alleged. At sentencing, County Court terminated defendant’s probation and sentenced him to time served. Defendant’s challenge to the revocation of his probation is unavailing. Defendant claims that his right to a prompt hearing pursuant to CPL 410.70 (1) was violated by the passage of more than 16 months between the filing of the first violation petition and the hearing on the second petition. As the statutory prompt hearing ground was not raised before County Court, it is not preserved for our review (see People v Miguel, 53 NY2d 920, 922 [1981]; People v Martin, 50 NY2d 1029, 1031 [1980]). The probation violations were proven by a preponderance of the evidence (see CPL 410.70 [3]; People v Costanza, 281 AD2d 120, 124 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d,827 [2001]). County Court properly determined that the People met their burden of proving defendant’s violation of probation by his unexcused failure to report on two specific occasions. The burden of proving a justifiable excuse for a probation violation rests with the probationer (see People v Costanza, supra at 123). Defendant’s testimony boiled down to his admission that his appointments “just slipped my mind.” Merely forgetting appointments with a probation officer because of other responsibilities in life is insufficient justification. Since defendant failed to meet his burden, the violation was properly established. Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Mugglin and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from an order of the County Court of Broome County (Smith, J.), entered July 12, 2002, which classified defendant as a risk level III sex offender pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act. Following his conviction in March 1995 of the crimes of sexual abuse in the first degree and reckless endangerment in the first degree, defendant was sentenced to consecutive terms of 3 to 6 years in prison (244 AD2d 764 [1997], lv denied 91 NY2d 973 [1998]). Prior to defendant’s release on parole, the Board of Examiners of Sex Offenders recommended to County Court that defendant be classified as a risk level III sex offender pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act (see Correction Law art 6-C), even though the risk assessment instrument indicated that risk level II was the presumptive category in which defendant should be placed. At the subsequent hearing, which defendant did not attend, County Court followed the Board’s recommendation and classified defendant as a risk level III sex offender. Defendant now appeals. Defendant initially asserts that clear and convincing evidence was not presented before County Court warranting a departure from the presumptive risk level category indicated by the assessment instrument. Our review of the record reveals an absence of proof indicating the reasons for the recommended departure or the facts and circumstances considered by County Court in adopting the Board’s recommendation. In fact, the People concede that County Court failed to set forth the findings of fact and conclusions of law supporting its decision to classify defendant as a risk level III sex offender as required by Correction Law § 168-n (3). In light of this, the order must be reversed and the matter remitted to County Court for compliance with the statute (see People v Sturdivant, 307 AD2d 382, 382-383 [2003]; People v Lee, 292 AD2d 639, 640 [2002]). Defendant further contends, and the People concede, that he should have been afforded the right to have counsel present at the hearing. The record does not indicate that defendant was notified of his right to have counsel present at the hearing as required by Correction Law § 168-n (3) or that defendant waived this right. Consequently, this requirement must also be complied with upon remittal. Mercure, J.P, Peters, Spain and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, without costs, and matter remitted to the County Court of Broome County for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Mercure, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Delaware County (Estes, J.), rendered July 8, 2002, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of aggravated criminal contempt and assault in the second degree. Following a period of marital difficulties with defendant, the victim obtained orders of protection against him. In February 2002 and while the orders of protection remained in effect, the victim drove to her second home in Delaware County. Suspicious that defendant may have broken into the residence, the victim requested an escort from the Delaware County Sheriffs Department, but was refused. Nevertheless, the victim proceeded to her residence, where she found defendant. Over the course of the next hour and a half, a violent interaction ensued. The victim testified that defendant dragged her into the house, beat her with his fists, banged her head against the floor and hit her in the head with a metal tool, causing her to lose consciousness. Defendant testified that the victim arrived at the house, cursed at him, pushed him into a wall and repeatedly hit him. He admitted hitting the victim in the face and stated that after a cooling-off period, the victim threw a space heater at him. He then threw the heater back at the victim, hitting her in the head. The victim ultimately went to the hospital where she received treatment for her injuries. Thereafter, defendant was arrested and charged in an indictment with the crimes of aggravated criminal contempt, assault in the second degree and unlawful imprisonment in the first degree. Following a jury trial, defendant was acquitted of unlawful imprisonment and found guilty of the remaining crimes. County Court directed defendant to pay $1,412.72 in restitution to the victim and sentenced defendant to prison terms of 2Vs to 7 years upon his conviction of aggravated criminal contempt and seven years upon his conviction of assault in the second degree, with the sentences to run consecutively and to be followed by three years of postrelease supervision. Defendant appeals. Defendant first argues that the verdict is not based upon legally sufficient evidence. Although this argument was not preserved by an appropriate motion, addressing defendant’s claim in the interest of justice, we find it to be without merit in any event. In order to find a defendant guilty of aggravated criminal contempt, the jury must conclude that “when in violation of a duly served order of protection, or such order of which the defendant has actual knowledge because he or she was present in court when such order was issued . . . [defendant] intentionally or recklessly cause[d] physical injury or serious physical injury to a person for whose protection such order was issued” (Penal Law § 215.52). Here, the orders of protection prohibited defendant from committing any criminal offense or act of physical violence against the victim. The victim alleged that defendant beat her, punching her and hitting her in the head with a metal tool. Indeed, defendant admitted hitting the victim in the face and throwing a space heater at her head, incidents constituting violations of the orders of protection. Moreover, defendant does not dispute that he was present in court when the orders were issued and that he therefore had actual knowledge of the terms of the orders (see People v Sullivan, 284 AD2d 917, 918 [2001], lvs denied 96 NY2d 942 [2001], 97 NY2d 658 [2001]). Medical testimony supported the conclusion that the victim suffered the requisite physical injury, defined as “impairment of physical condition or substantial pain” (Penal Law § 10.00 [9]). The physician’s assistant who examined the victim after the incident described her as traumatized and dazed with lacerations on her face, bruising on her thorax, upper and lower extremities, blood on the inside of her nose and two black eyes. He stated that the victim had a laceration on her head that required surgical staples and that her injuries caused her pain, necessitating that she be given medication. Viewing the evidence in a light most favorable to the People, we conclude that “there is [a] valid line of reasoning and permissible inferences which could lead a rational person to the conclusion reached by the jury” (People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]; see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620, 621 [1983]) that defendant intended to cause the victim physical injury in violation of the orders of protection and did cause such injury (see People v Sullivan, supra at 917-918 [2001]; People v Ray, 273 AD2d 611, 612 [2000]). Similarly, the evidence at trial was sufficient to support defendant’s conviction pursuant to Penal Law § 120.05 (2), which provides that “[a] person is guilty of assault in the second degree when . . . [w]ith intent to cause physical injury to another person, he [or she] causes such injury to such person . . . by means of a deadly weapon or a dangerous instrument.” As noted above, the victim testified that her injuries were caused in part by defendant hitting her in the head with a metal tool and defendant admitted that he threw a space heater at the victim, causing the laceration on her head. Either of these objects is a “dangerous instrument,” that is, “any instrument . . . which, under the circumstances in which it is used, attempted to be used or threatened to be used, is readily capable of causing death or other serious physical injury” (Penal Law § 10.00 [13]; see People v Ray, supra at 613). Given our determination that legally sufficient evidence supports the jury’s conclusion that defendant intended to cause the victim physical injury and that she suffered such injury, we conclude that the elements of assault in the second degree were sufficiently established here. We are also unpersuaded by defendant’s argument that the verdict was against the weight of the evidence. To the extent that the testimony of defendant and the victim differed, “our review of the record reveals no basis upon which to reject the jury’s decision to accept the [People’s] evidence on this issue and to reject defendant’s version of the incident” (People v Curry, 294 AD2d 608, 610 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 674 [2002]; see People v Al-Shimari, 266 AD2d 586, 587 [1999], lv denied 94 NY2d 916 [2000]). We agree with defendant, however, that County Court erred in imposing consecutive sentences. Penal Law § 70.25 (2) states, in relevant part, that “[w]hen more than one sentence of imprisonment is imposed . . . for two or more offenses committed through a single act or omission, or through an act or omission which in itself constituted one of the offenses and also was a material element of the other, the sentences . . . must run concurrently.” Here, the act constituting assault in the second degree—intentionally causing physical injury by means of a dangerous instrument (Penal Law § 120.05 [2])—can be a material element of aggravated criminal contempt (Penal Law § 215.52). Thus, the People are obligated to demonstrate the legality of the consecutive sentences by showing, through identifiable facts, that the acts constituting each offense were separate and distinct (see People v Ramirez, 89 NY2d 444, 451 [1996]; People v Laureano, 87 NY2d 640, 643-645 [1996]). County Court concluded that consecutive sentences were appropriate because defendant’s acts in punching and beating the victim formed the basis of the aggravated criminal contempt conviction, while his separate act of hitting the victim with a space heater formed the basis of the assault conviction. We observe, however, that the court’s charge to the jury did not describe defendant initially punching the victim as a separate act, causing distinct physical injuries, from defendant throwing the space heater at her in another room. Nor is it clear that the jury accepted defendant’s claims that he threw the space heater at her after a cooling-off period; instead, the jury may have accepted the victim’s testimony that defendant hit her over the head with a metal tool during the initial beating. We therefore conclude that the People have failed to establish that the acts constituting the assault offense were separate and distinct from those that established the physical injury element of aggravated criminal contempt and, thus, concurrent sentences were required (see People v Parks, 95 NY2d 811, 815 [2000]; People v Jeanty [Johnson] [Black] [Bernard], 268 AD2d 675, 680 [2000], lvs denied 94 NY2d 945, 949 [2000]; see also People v De Maio, 304 AD2d 988 [2003]). We have considered defendant’s remaining arguments and find them to be either meritless or rendered academic by our decision. Cardona, P.J., Carpinello, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, by directing that defendant’s sentences for the crimes of aggravated criminal contempt and assault in the second degree shall run concurrently rather than consecutively, and, as so modified, affirmed. Although defendant also failed to preserve this argument, “a challenge to an unlawful sentence falls outside the preservation rule” (People v Samms, 95 NY2d 52, 56 [2000]).
Cardona, EJ. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Washington County (Hemmett, Jr., J.), rendered July 17, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of assault in the second degree. Defendant, an inmate, was charged in an indictment with two counts of assault in the second degree stemming from his attack of a correction officer. Pursuant to a plea agreement, defendant pleaded guilty to the first count and was sentenced as a second violent felony offender to a determinate prison term of seven years. On appeal, defendant contends that his guilty plea was not voluntarily made and the sentence is harsh and excessive. Initially, we note that since defendant failed to move to withdraw his guilty plea or to vacate the judgment of conviction, his challenge to the voluntariness of his plea is unpreserved for our review (see People v De Berardinis, 304 AD2d 914, 915 [2003]; People v Fulford, 296 AD2d 661, 662 [2002]). Nevertheless, the record demonstrates that County Court fully explained the rights being surrendered and defendant acknowledged the abandonment of those rights. Defendant stated that he had not been threatened, was entering the plea under his own free will, had discussed the ramifications of his plea with counsel and did strike a correction officer as charged. Accordingly, were the merits properly before us, we would conclude that defendant’s plea was knowingly, voluntarily and intelligently made (see People v Allen, 301 AD2d 874, 875 [2003], lv denied 99 NY2d 652 [2003]; People v Young, 301 AD2d 754, 754 [2003], lv denied 99 NY2d 634 [2003]; People v Teague, 295 AD2d 813, 814 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 772 [2002]). Additionally, we are unpersuaded by defendant’s claim that his guilty plea was compromised by his attorney’s alleged guarantee that the plea would forestall a civil suit against him. Defendant stated during his allocution that, except for the recommended sentence, absolutely no promises had been made to him. Thus, the record does not support his contention. We are equally unpersuaded that the sentence imposed was harsh and excessive. Given defendant’s lengthy criminal history, the fact that the agreed-upon sentence was the result of a beneficial plea bargain and the absence of extraordinary circumstances warranting modification in the interest of justice, we find no basis to disturb the sentence imposed (see People v Cartwright, 301 AD2d 682 [2003]; People v Bell, 290 AD2d 729, 730 [2002]; People v Kelly, 279 AD2d 891 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 802 [2001]). Mercure, Crew III, Peters and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Schenectady County (Eidens, J.), rendered June 6, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree. Defendant’s plea to criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree was entered in full satisfaction of a multiple count indictment alleging sale of heroin to an undercover officer. As part of the plea bargain, defendant waived his right to appeal and the People agreed to recommend a prison sentence of 2 to 6 years with diversion to a drug treatment program. Despite a Parker admonition, defendant abandoned the residential drug program and failed to appear for sentencing. Defendant was sentenced in absentia to the promised period of imprisonment. Defendant appeals, contending that his plea was not voluntary, that he did not receive the effective assistance of counsel and that the sentence was excessive. We affirm. Inasmuch as defendant failed to move to withdraw his plea or otherwise vacate the judgment of conviction, any attack on the voluntariness of the plea is unpreserved (see People v De Berardinis, 304 AD2d 914, 915 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 580 [2003]; People v McCann, 303 AD2d 780, 781 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 584 [2003]; People v Camp, 302 AD2d 629, 630 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 593 [2003]; People v Teague, 295 AD2d 813, 814 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 772 [2002]). Were we to reach defendant’s argument concerning the entry of his plea, we would find it unpersuasive since the record clearly supports the conclusion that the plea was knowingly, intelligently and voluntarily entered (see People v Smith, 305 AD2d 853, 854 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 624 [2003]; People v Sampson, 301 AD2d 677 [2003]; People v Keyes, 300 AD2d 909, 909-910 [2002]; People v Fulford, 296 AD2d 661, 662 [2002]). Next, many of the alleged failings defendant points to as supporting his claim of ineffective assistance of counsel relate to sentencing, not to the voluntariness of the plea, and are precluded by his waiver of appeal (see People v De Berardinis, supra at 915; People v Camp, supra at 630). Further, failure of defendant’s attorney to persuade County Court to impose a lighter sentence (particularly in view of defendant’s abandonment of the drug treatment program and his disappearance prior to sentencing) does not constitute ineffectiveness (see People v Smith [Jones] [Tree], 300 AD2d 745, 746 [2002], lvs denied 99 NY2d 616, 620 [2003]). Finally, any challenge to the sentence as excessive is precluded by defendant’s waiver of appeal (see People v Rea, 305 AD2d 802 [2003]). He waived his right to be considered for youthful offender treatment by failing to request it and, given the totality of defendant’s conduct, no basis exists upon which to exercise our interest of justice powers to consider the issue now (see People v McGowen, 42 NY2d 905, 906 [1977]; People v Richardson [Cheeks], 295 AD2d 704, 704 [2002], lvs denied 98 NY2d 709, 713 [2002]; People v Chaplin, 178 AD2d 685 [1991], lv denied 79 NY2d 945 [1992]). Mercure, J.P., Peters, Spain and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Cardona, P. J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Tompkins County (Sherman, J.), rendered January 7, 2003, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of three counts of the crime of forgery in the second degree. Defendant was indicted on 12 counts of forgery in the second degree and 12 counts of criminal possession of a forged instrument in the second degree. Claiming that he forged the checks in order to support his cocaine habit, defendant sought to plead guilty and be sentenced to parole supervision for drug treatment pursuant to CPL 410.91. The prosecutor refused to provide the required consent to that sentencing option (see CPL 410.91 [4]) and County Court denied defendant’s challenge to the constitutionality of that requirement. Thereafter, pursuant to a negotiated agreement, defendant pleaded guilty to three counts of forgery in the second degree (see Penal Law § 170.10), in full satisfaction of the indictment, and was sentenced as a second felony offender to, inter alia, concurrent prison terms of 2 to 4 years. On appeal, defendant argues that the consent provision contained in CPL 410.91 (4) unconstitutionally violates the separation of powers doctrine by improperly delegating judicial authority to the executive branch. Initially, we note that this Court recently addressed the same argument, in dicta, in People v Mack (304 AD2d 847, 848 [2003]), where we observed that the defendant failed to show “that CPL 410.91 (4) violates the separation of powers doctrine and is thus unconstitutional.” With that issue squarely before us herein, we reach the same conclusion. Notably, with respect to sentencing in criminal matters, there can be no dispute that “the ultimate determination of an appropriate sentence is to be made by the court” (People v Farrar, 52 NY2d 302, 307 [1981]). Nevertheless, the Legislature has full authority to create criminal offenses and also “to limit the sentencing options available to the judiciary [for those offenses]” (People v Eason, 40 NY2d 297, 301 [1976]). Accordingly, “[s]o long as a statute does not wrest from courts the final discretion to impose sentence, it does not infringe upon the constitutional division of responsibilities” (id. at 301 [emphasis in original]). Here, while CPL 410.91 (4) limits a court’s discretion to the extent of requiring the prosecutor’s consent prior to the imposition of a parole supervision sentence, it does not constrain a court to sentence a defendant in any particular way. As such, defendant has failed in his “heavy burden” of establishing that CPL 410.91 (4) violates the separation of powers doctrine (People v Mack, supra at 848; see People v North St. Book Shoppe, 139 AD2d 118, 119 [1988], lv denied 72 NY2d 1048 [1988]). Mercure, Crew III, Peters and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Carpinello, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Columbia County (Czajka, J.), rendered October 3, 2001, which revoked defendant’s probation and imposed a sentence of imprisonment. Defendant challenges the revocation of a sentence of probation that had been imposed following a 1998 drug conviction. After arraignment on charges of violating the terms of his probation by using cocaine and an opiate and for failing to complete mental health counseling, defendant admitted that he had used cocaine in violation of the terms of his probation. A subsequent presentence investigation revealed that defendant began a drug treatment program while these charges were pending, but tested positive on numerous occasions for cocaine and opiate use and also refused at times to provide a urine specimen. County Court revoked defendant’s probation and sentenced him to a prison term of P/s to 5 years. On appeal, defendant contends that County Court improperly based its determination to revoke his probation on the unproven allegations of drug use contained in the report of the presentence investigation. In our view, however, defendant’s admission that he violated the terms of his probation was sufficient, in and of itself, to warrant revocation of probation (see CPL 410.70 [2]; People v Plantz, 290 AD2d 594, 594 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 639 [2002]; People v Minard, 161 AD2d 607, 607 [1990], lv denied 76 NY2d 861 [1990]). Further, we find no error or abuse of discretion in County Court’s sentencing determination, which was properly based, in part, on defendant’s prior criminal history (see People v Gotham, 284 AD2d 578, 579 [2001]; People v Whalen, 99 AD2d 883, 884 [1984]), nor do we find extraordinary circumstances warranting a reduction of that sentence in the interest of justice (see People v Gay, 305 AD2d 856, 856 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 620 [2003]; People v Murphy, 257 AD2d 766, 767 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 876 [1999]). Mercure, J.E, Spain, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed’
Peters, J. Appeals (1) (upon remittal from the Court of Appeals) from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Canfield, J), entered October 13, 1999 in Albany County, which, inter alia, in a combined proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 and action for a declaratory judgment, declared Tax Law §§ 301 and 301-a to be facially constitutional, and (2) from a judgment of said court, entered June 19, 2002 in Albany County, which, inter alia, granted respondent’s motion for partial summary judgment. The relevant facts underlying this proceeding have been presented in our prior opinion and in the recent decision of the Court of Appeals (283 AD2d 78 [2001], revd 99 NY2d 443 [2003]). Briefly stated, in June 1998, petitioner Moran Towing Corporation commenced a combined declaratory judgment action and CPLR article 78 proceeding to overturn a decision of the Department of Taxation and Finance which denied its request for a petroleum business tax (hereinafter PBT) refund premised on the ground that Tax Law § 301 (a) (1) (ii) and § 301-a (b) (2) and (c) (1) (B) violated the Commerce Clause (US Const, art I, § 8 [3]). In November 1998, petitioners Eklof Marine Corporation and its subsidiaries, along with petitioner Reinauer Transportation Companies, Inc. and its successor in interest (hereinafter collectively referred to as petitioners), successfully intervened and joined in these claims. Supreme Court found the PBT to be constitutional and denied the request for refunds due to a failure to exhaust administrative remedies. While both Moran and petitioners appealed, Moran withdrew its appeal to pursue its administrative remedies. This Court found the challenged sections of the PBT to be facially unconstitutional (283 AD2d 78, 81-83 [2001], supra) and the Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal sha sponte due to the lack of a final judgment (96 NY2d 937 [2001]). Respondent returned to Supreme Court seeking dismissal of all remaining claims and a final judgment consistent with this Court’s findings. Petitioners cross-moved for summary judgment seeking a refund for amounts paid from 1984 to 1996, along with counsel fees pursuant to 42 USC § 1988. Supreme Court granted respondent’s motion and declared the operative sections of the Tax Law to be unconstitutional. Petitioners’ requested relief was denied. Although petitioners appealed from that determination, the Court of Appeals, in the interim, reversed this Court’s determination that the relevant sections of the PBT were facially unconstitutional (99 NY2d 443, 445 [2003]) and remitted the matter (id. at 451). Petitioners and respondent then agreed to join the appeal with the remittal; they acknowledge that the pivotal issue is whether the retroactive application of the PBT violated due process and, if so, whether refunds or counsel fees are due. Tax Law §§ 301 and 301-a (b) (2) and (c) (1) (B) were amended in 1997 in response to Matter of Tug Buster Bouchard Corp. v Wetzler (217 AD2d 192 [1996], affd 89 NY2d 830 [1996]). There, Tax Law § 301 (a) (1) (ii) was found to be facially discriminatory and in violation of interstate commerce because if another state were to enact a similar statute, an entity that purchased petroleum in that state for consumption in New York would be subject to double taxation (see Matter of Tug Buster Bouchard Corp. v Wetzler, supra at 196). Additional sections were, therefore, added to Tax Law article 13-A to clarify and cure this constitutional defect; they provided credits, refunds and reimbursements to entities which were subjected to multiple taxation (see L 1997, ch 389, part A, §§ 151-158, 219). Therein it was specified that Tax Law § 301 (c) was to be retroactively applied to 1984 whereas the amendment to Tax Law § 301-a was to be retroactively applied to 1990 (see L 1997, ch 389, part A, § 219). Other than excepting recreational motorboats and commercial fishing vessels from their scope, the amended laws taxed petroleum businesses that bring petroleum into New York in their fuel tanks either for their own consumption or for shipments made to points within the state; they did not affect the way in which the taxes were to be computed (see L 1997, ch 389, part A, §§ 151-158). It is against this backdrop that we assess whether such retroactive application is violative of due process. The retroactivity provisions of a tax statute will generally be upheld if they are imposed for a short period (see Matter of Replan Dev. v Department of Hous. Preserv. & Dev. of City of N.Y., 70 NY2d 451, 455 [1987], appeal dismissed 485 US 950 [1988]; Matter of Boynton Suites v Board of Assessment Review of City of Plattsburgh, 274 AD2d 926, 927 [2000]). The issue thus distills to whether “ ‘the retroactivity of the law is “so harsh and oppressive as to transgress the constitutional limitation” ’ ” (Matter of Boynton Suites v Board of Assessment Review of City of Plattsburgh, supra at 928, quoting Matter of Replan Dev. v Department of Hous. Preserv. & Dev. of City of N.Y., supra at 455, quoting Welch v Henry, 305 US 134, 147 [1938]). Notably, when legislation is curative, retroactivity may be liberally construed (see United States v Carlton, 512 US 26 [1994]). The determination is a matter of degree “ ‘requiring a “balancing of [the] equities” ’ ” (Matter of Boynton Suites v Board of Assessment Review of City of Plattsburgh, supra at 928, quoting Matter of Replan Dev. v Department of Hous. Preserv. & Dev. of City of N.Y., supra at 456, quoting Clarendon Trust v State Tax Commn., 43 NY2d 933, 934 [1978], cert denied 439 US 831 [1978]), including a consideration of the reasonableness of a taxpayer’s reliance on the prior law and whether such reliance was justified (see Matter of Replan Dev. v Department of Hous. Preserv. & Dev. of City of N.Y., supra at 456). The reasonableness that a taxpayer will “ ‘secure repose from the taxation of transactions which have, in all probability, been long forgotten’ ” (id. at 456, quoting Matter of Neuner v Weyant, 63 AD2d 290, 302 [1978]) will be tempered by not only the length of the retroactive period but also its “public purpose” (Matter of Replan Dev. v Department of Hous. Preserv. & Dev. of City of N.Y., supra at 456). The modern view recognizes these underlying policy considerations (see Matter of Hodes v Axelrod, 70 NY2d 364, 371 [1987]), heightening flexibility when an amendment to a tax statute is implemented in response to a federal constitutional infraction (see Harper v Virginia Dept. of Taxation, 509 US 86, 100 [1993]; see also McKesson Corp. v Division of Alcoholic Beverages & Tobacco, 496 US 18, 40 [1990]). Due process will, however, require that taxpayers be afforded a meaningful opportunity to secure either pre or postdeprivation remedies (see McKesson Corp. v Division of Alcoholic Beverages & Tobacco, supra at 36; see also Matter of Brault v New York State Tax Appeals Trib., 265 AD2d 700, 701-702 [1999]). Here, we find that the 1997 amendments to Tax Law article 13-A cured the lack of internal consistency identified in Matter of Tug Buster Bouchard Corp. v Wetzler (217 AD2d 192 [1996], supra). Their retroactivity served to eradicate the discrimination and, in compliance with due process concerns, “create in hindsight a nondiscriminatory scheme” (McKesson Corp. v Division of Alcoholic Beverages & Tobacco, supra at 40). “Having done so, the State may retain the tax appropriately levied upon petitioner pursuant to this reformulated scheme because this retention would deprive petitioner of its property pursuant to a tax scheme that is valid under the Commerce Clause” (id. at 40 [emphasis in original]). Hence, by mating the refunds retroactively available, New York has provided “ ‘ “meaningful backward-looting relief to rectify any unconstitutional deprivation” ’ ” (Matter of Brault v New York State Tax Appeals Trib., supra at 701, quoting Harper v Virginia Dept. of Taxation, supra at 101, quoting McKesson Corp. v Division of Alcoholic Beverages & Tobacco, supra at 31); the fact that petitioners were not eligible for these refunds does not undermine their purpose. Finally, addressing the facial constitutional challenge to this statute (see Tennessee Gas Pipeline Co. v Urbach, 269 AD2d 19, 21 [2000], revd on other grounds 96 NY2d 124 [2001]), we find that petitioners have failed to sustain their burden of demonstrating that the retroactivity provisions are “ ‘ “so harsh and oppressive as to transgress the constitutional limitation” ’ ” (Matter of Boynton Suites v Board of Assessment Review of City of Plattsburgh, 274 AD2d 926, 928 [2000], supra, quoting Matter of Replan Dev. v Department of Hous. Preserv. & Dev. of City of N.Y, 70 NY2d 451, 455 [1987], supra, quoting Welch v Henry, 305 US 134, 147 [1938], supra). Further, we find that the postdeprivation procedures to rectify the unconstitutional privation were adequate (see McKesson Corp. v Division of Alcoholic Beverages & Tobacco, supra at 36-37; see also Tully v Griffin, Inc., 429 US 68, 75 [1976]). Accordingly, petitioners’ CPLR article 78 proceeding must be dismissed. With no successful claim under 42 USC § 1983, there is no entitlement to counsel fees under 42 USC § 1988. Her cure, J.P., Spain, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgments are affirmed, without costs. We reject respondent’s assertion that petitioners abandoned this claim.
Peters, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed May 1, 2001, which ruled that claimant had sustained a permanent partial disability. In 1992, claimant reported injuries to her arms as a result of production work performed for the employer. In 2000, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge found that claimant was permanently partially disabled and the disability was moderate in severity. The Workers’ Compensation Board affirmed this determination. Noting the conflicting medical evidence, the Board found that the testimony and report of orthopedic surgeon Matthew Landfried, with whom claimant treated, created sufficient evidence for the classification rendered. The employer and its workers’ compensation carrier appeal and we affirm. As “conflicts in medical proof lie within the province of the Board to resolve” (Matter of Rochel v Gardiner Manor Mall, 259 AD2d 840, 841 [1999]), we agree that there was substantial evidence in this record to support the determination. Landfried first saw claimant in December 1992. He later performed carpal tunnel release surgery on claimant’s hands. By May 1993, claimant began complaining of pain in her elbows, later complaining of problems in her right shoulder. Landfried then performed a right ulnar nerve transposition surgery and, although she was asymptomatic by February 1998, he placed her under lifting restrictions and precluded her from performing repetitive activities with her upper extremities. Landfried diagnosed claimant as suffering from accumulative trauma syndrome as a result of her work-related injuries. He opined that based on the workers’ compensation medical guidelines, claimant should be classified, due to this chronic pain and condition which remains progressive or nonstable. Landfried based his belief that she should be classified, rather than scheduled, because if claimant returned to repetitive work, she would become symptomatic. Orthopedic surgeon Richard Della Porta submitted a narrative report in August 1997 which also diagnosed claimant as having a moderate partial disability. He indicated the same restrictions as did Landfried and also opined that claimant was not stable enough for a final adjustment. While we recognize that the carrier’s orthopedic expert, Mark Goodman, testified that only some of claimant’s injuries were causally related to her employment and that had he to assume otherwise, he would not find her symptoms so severe or disabling for classification under the workers’ compensation guidelines, “[t]he fact that claimant does not exhibit all of the specific limitations set forth in the guidelines does not compel the Board to find that claimant is not . . . disabled” (Matter of Floyd v Millard Fillmore Hosp., 299 AD2d 610, 612 [2002]). With the Board resolving the conflict in medical proof in claimant’s favor and with such determination supported by substantial evidence, we find no reason to disturb the award rendered (see Matter of Rochel v Gardiner Manor Mall, supra at 841; Matter of Andrews v T & G Floor & Wall Covering, 122 AD2d 355, 355 [1986]). Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Crew III and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Mercure, J. Appeals (1) from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed April 18, 2001, which, inter alia, ruled that claimant did not sustain a causally related injury and denied his claim for workers’ compensation benefits, and (2) from a decision of said Board, filed September 20, 2002, which denied claimant’s request for reconsideration or full Board review. In 1994, Arben Construction Company employed claimant as an ironworker. Claimant asserts that on his last day of work, he injured his back and right leg when his foot went through a ramp with a missing plank. Following several hearings, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge found that claimant did not sustain an industrial accident and disallowed his claim for benefits. The Workers’ Compensation Board affirmed and claimant appeals. The Board also denied claimant’s subsequent application for reconsideration or full Board review. Claimant appeals from that decision, as well. Based upon our review of the record, we conclude that the Board’s decision is supported by substantial evidence. Although claimant and witnesses on his behalf initially asserted that he was injured on the night of August 10, 1994, his supervisor, project superintendent and Arben’s executive vice-president testified that claimant was laid off after the shift ending during the early morning of August 10, 1994. Claimant thereafter changed his testimony and stated that the accident occurred on August 9, 1994. There was also conflicting testimony regarding whether claimant informed his bosses of the accident, with his supervisor and project superintendent stating—in contradiction to claimant’s testimony—that claimant did not notify them. Moreover, while claimant averred that the accident prevented him from doing any work for pay or otherwise, Arben presented the testimony of an investigator who witnessed claimant doing “welding, iron work, [and] construction,” along with a videotape of claimant performing those tasks. In light of this contradictory testimony and given that the Board is the final judge of witness credibility (see Matter of Moore v J & R Vending Corp., 297 AD2d 887, 888 [2002]; Matter of Harris v Revere Copper Prods., 294 AD2d 792, 793 [2002]), we find no basis to disturb the Board’s decision. Contrary to claimant’s arguments, the medical reports and testimony of his chiropractor, which indicated that claimant suffered injury and is totally disabled, do not compel a contrary result. We observe that this evidence was belied by the videotape showing claimant involved in physically arduous work. In any event, the Board “is free to reject all or any portion of the medical evidence offered” (Matter of Mitchell v New York City Tr. Auth., 244 AD2d 723, 723 [1997], lv denied 91 NY2d 809 [1998]). Finally, we have reviewed claimant’s conclusory assertion that the Board’s decision denying reconsideration was arbitrary and capricious, and find that it is meritless. Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Feters and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decisions are affirmed, without costs.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed January 10, 2002, which ruled that claimant had a causally related injury arising out of and in the course of her employment. Claimant, while working as a delivery person for the employer, witnessed a motor vehicle accident in which her daughter was killed. She filed a claim for workers’ compensation benefits contending that she suffered from stress, depression and exacerbation of a gastrointestinal condition caused by this psychic trauma. The employer and its workers’ compensation carrier controverted the claim, contending, among other things, that claimant had not been involved in a work-related accident. A Workers’ Compensation Law Judge found that claimant had been an active participant in the accident that claimed her daughter’s life and established her claim for injuries causally related to the accident. The Board affirmed, prompting this appeal by the employer and its carrier. It is well settled that “an injury caused by emotional stress or shock may be accidental within the purview of the [workers’] compensation law” (Matter of Wolfe v Sibley, Lindsay & Curr Co., 36 NY2d 505, 509 [1975]). Physical or psychological injuries resulting from the psychic trauma of witnessing an accident have been deemed compensable when the claimant was an “active participant” in the accident (id. at 511; see Matter of Wood v Laidlaw Tr., 77 NY2d 79, 84-85 [1990]). Claimant, in her affidavit and deposition testimony, recounted that she was waiting to make a left turn when she saw her daughter’s vehicle pass her traveling in the opposite direction. Claimant heard screeching brakes, saw in her rearview mirror that a truck was bearing down upon her and quickly pulled away to avoid a collision. Claimant then saw that a tractor-trailer had struck her daughter’s vehicle, causing injuries that later proved fatal. Claimant’s account was corroborated by the accident reports and the testimony of a deputy sheriff. They established that while claimant was stopped to make a left turn, a tractor-trailer was unable to stop. It collided with the rear-end of a truck stopped behind claimant’s vehicle, and then crossed into oncoming traffic and struck the vehicle driven by claimant’s daughter. Under these circumstances, we agree with the Board that claimant was an active participant in the accident, and thus eligible for workers’ compensation for the resulting physical and psychological injuries. Lastly, we find no error in the Board’s denial of the carrier’s request to cross-examine claimant’s psychiatrist. As limited by its brief, the carrier does not seek to cross-examine the doctor as to claimant’s medical condition. Rather, the carrier asserts that the doctor’s report injects additional inconsistent statements concerning claimant’s operation of her vehicle and her fright which increases the degree of her involvement in the accident. Contrary to the carrier’s assertions, we find the doctor’s statement to be consistent with claimant’s testimony and not controverted by the deputy sheriffs testimony, both of whom were cross-examined by the carrier. Thus, we agree with the Board that there is “no disparity between the history of the accident provided to [claimant’s psychiatrist] and that provided elsewhere by the claimant,” making the request for cross-examination unwarranted as there is no discrepancy or disagreement in the record (see Matter of Torres v TAD Tech. Servs. Corp., 193 AD2d 975, 975-976 [1993]; cf. Matter of Pugliese v Remington Arms, 293 AD2d 897, 898 [2002]). Mercure, J.P., Peters, Spain and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Kane, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Stein, J), entered October 17, 2002 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to, inter alia, review respondent’s determination terminating petitioner’s contract with New York State. Respondent issued an invitation for bids regarding floor covering installation contracts for government projects. Petitioner submitted a bid, which was accepted in February 2002. In April 2002, respondent notified petitioner that the contract was being cancelled, as it should not have been awarded to petitioner because the hourly labor rate in its bid was below the prevailing wage rate required for state contracts (see Labor Law § 220 [3]). Petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding seeking an injunction preventing respondent from cancelling the contract. Since respondent did not act arbitrarily and capriciously in cancelling the contract without allowing petitioner to alter its hourly labor rate to comply with the prevailing wage rate, we affirm Supreme Court’s dismissal of the petition. The contractor bears the burden of showing that the agency lacked a rational basis for its decision (see Promissor, Inc. v New York State Ins. Dept., 307 AD2d 460, 461 [2003]; Matter of Adelaide Envtl. Health Assoc. v New York State Off. of Gen. Servs., 248 AD2d 861, 862 [1998]; Matter of R.W. Granger & Sons v State of N.Y. Facilities Dev. Corp., 207 AD2d 596, 597 [1994]). The applicable prevailing wage rate was disclosed to bidders in the invitation for bids as well as at a prebid meeting, which petitioner failed to attend. The failure of petitioner’s bid to conform with the bid requirements or the Labor Law provided a rational basis for respondent to reject the bid (see Matter of R.W. Granger & Sons v State of N.Y. Facilities Dev. Corp., supra at 597; Matter of Stacor Corp. v Egan, 122 AD2d 480, 481-482 [1986]; see generally State Finance Law § 163 [10]). “[T]he law and public policy mandate that bidders be treated equally and fairly in their pursuit of public work . . . [because] fairness in the bidding process is inextricably connected with the objective of obtaining the best quality work at the lowest possible price” (Matter of Fischbach & Moore v New York City Tr. Auth., 79 AD2d 14, 18-19 [1981], lv denied 53 NY2d 604 [1981]; see Matter of Conduit & Found. Corp. v Metropolitan Transp. Auth., 66 NY2d 144, 148 [1985]). If municipalities are permitted to ease contract specifications after bids have been submitted or waive material variances in bids received, potential bidders will lose confidence that their bids will be fairly considered and be discouraged from bidding, thus diminishing competition for public contracts to the detriment of the public (see Matter of Fischbach & Moore v New York City Tr. Auth., supra at 20). Contrary to petitioner’s argument, this case is distinguishable from matters where a government entity negotiates for or accepts postbid price reductions or downward modifications from a successful bidder after the contract was properly awarded, as such downward modifications are not contrary to law and clearly promote the public interest (compare Matter of Pallette Stone Corp. v State of N.Y. Off. of Gen. Servs., 245 AD2d 756 [1997]; Matter of Fischbach & Moore v New York City Tr. Auth., supra). Respondent’s decision to cancel petitioner’s contract after discovering that it was erroneously awarded based on a nonconforming bid, and not permitting modification of the proposal to correct petitioner’s error, was rational and in accordance with the policies underlying the competitive bidding statutes. Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Carpinello and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Carpinello, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Kavanagh, J.), entered May 21, 2002 in Ulster County, which granted defendant’s motion to strike plaintiffs claim of injury to his cervical spine. In this automobile accident case, plaintiff claims to have suffered serious personal injuries as a result of a January 2000 two-car collision. Specifically, he alleges that the accident caused bulging discs and related trauma to his cervical spine and injuries to his right shoulder. As a part of discovery, defendant required that plaintiff submit to an independent medical examination. A consequent review of plaintiff’s medical records reflected that he had fallen at work in 1995, sustaining an injury to his neck and back. Since that time, he treated regularly with his own physician for complaints of chronic neck and right shoulder pain. Discovery also revealed that during the course of continuing treatment for these preaccident injuries, plaintiff had undergone an MRI of his cervical spine in May 1999. Defendant’s physician requested that the MRI be produced so that he could render a complete opinion as to whether plaintiff had suffered any injuries as a result of the accident that are distinguishable from his preexisting condition. Although the MRI film was apparently given to plaintiff by the imaging facility on March 15, 2000, he was unable to produce it when requested. This prompted defendant to seek summary dismissal of all claims relating to plaintiffs cervical spine. Supreme Court found that the prejudice to defendant caused by plaintiffs inability to produce the MRI film was substantial and granted the application. Plaintiff appeals, and we now affirm. Unlike Bigelow v Dick’s Sporting Goods (1 AD3d 777 [2003] [decided herewith]), where an allegedly defective bicycle chain was lost after being left at the scene of an accident, plaintiff can be charged with knowledge of the importance of preserving his MRI films at the time he obtained them in March 2000, two months after the accident for which he now sues. Furthermore, given the strong similarity between plaintiff’s injuries as sustained in the 1995 fall and those allegedly caused by the subject accident, we cannot say that Supreme Court abused its discretion by limiting plaintiff’s claims as it did, particularly since the missing MRI was critical to the core issue of whether plaintiff suffered any aggravation of his preexisting injuries (see Kirkland v New York City Hous. Auth., 236 AD2d 170, 175-176 [1997]; compare Jones v General Motors Corp., 287 AD2d 757, 760-761 [2001]). Finally, to the extent that the record on appeal incorporates papers from a motion to reargue, we have not considered same as they are not properly before us (see Ireland v Wilenzik, 296 AD2d 771, 773 [2002]). Crew III, J.R, Peters, Spain and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs.
Mercure, J. Appeal from an order of the Court of Claims (Bell, J.), entered February 21, 2002, which, inter alia, granted defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the claim. Claimant seeks indemnification from defendant for real property tax refunds to certain utility companies. A more detailed recitation of the underlying facts may be found in this Court’s prior decision, Matter of New York Tel. Co. v Nassau County (267 AD2d 629 [1999], lv denied 95 NY2d 756 [2000]), in which we held that claimant—a “special assessing unit” with the responsibility of assessing the values of “special franchise” properties' (see RPTL 616 [4]), such as the utilities’ property— miscalculated the tax liability of the utility companies for the 1995-1996 tax year. We concluded that despite notice from the State Office of Real Property Services (hereinafter ORPS) regarding the proper data to use in the calculation, claimant failed to use that data in determining the “adjusted base proportion” (hereinafter ABP) of the properties at issue (Matter of New York Tel. Co. v Nassau County, supra at 631-632). Rather, claimant used inappropriate data when it adjusted the utilities’ tax share to reflect changes to the property on the assessment roll (see RPTL 1803-a [5]). As a result of this error, the tax share attributable to the utility companies increased significantly and excessive taxes were levied on them (see Matter of New York Tel. Co. v Nassau County, supra at 632). In support of its request for indemnification, claimant asserted before the Court of Claims that ORPS improperly certified the ABPs used by claimant to compute the utilities’ tax bill when the information was forwarded to ORPS for review and certification pursuant to RPTL former 1803-a (7). That provision required, in pertinent part, that ORPS “review [the ABP] for accuracy of its determination and compliance with the provisions of this section.” Claimant argued that pursuant to section 1803-a (7), ORPS was required to check not only that the calculations were performed in accordance with the mathematical formula set forth in the statute—as it did—but also that the correct data were used in making the calculations. In November 2001, defendant moved, among other things, for summary judgment dismissing the claim. Claimant cross-moved for summary judgment. The Court of Claims granted defendant’s motion and dismissed the claim. Claimant appeals and we now affirm. It is well settled that defendant cannot be held liable for its negligence in the performance of discretionary, as opposed to ministerial, acts (see Lauer v City of New York, 95 NY2d 95, 99 [2000]; Tango v Tulevech, 61 NY2d 34, 40-42 [1983]). Thus, the issue before us distills to whether RPTL former 1803-a (7) left to ORPS’ discretion the scope of review of the ABPs or whether the review and certification process was ministerial in nature. The principal distinction between ministerial and discretionary acts “is that discretionary or quasi-judicial acts involve the exercise of reasoned judgment . . . whereas a ministerial act envisions direct adherence to a governing rule or standard with a compulsory result” (Tango v Tulevech, supra at 41; see Davis v State of New York, 257 AD2d 112, 115 [1999]). Here, RPTL former 1803-a (7) did not mandate any particular review procedure, define the scope of review or require the review to include an "examination of all the myriad data that factored into claimant’s calculation of the ABPs. Thus, in our view, the statute left to ORPS’s discretion the extent of the review. Further, we agree with ORPS’s assertion that its determination to limit its review to checking only a part of the calculations for accuracy and correct use of the statutory formula was reasonable given that ORPS had only a 30-day time frame to review hundreds of thousands of calculations (see RPTL former 1803-a [7]). In any event, even assuming that the review process was ministerial in nature and that ORPS erred in failing to check all of the underlying data submitted for accuracy, claimant has not demonstrated that it incurred damages in refunding taxes-collected from the utilities as a result of a misallocation of the tax burden among Nassau County taxpayers. Rather than seeking reimbursement from all the taxpayers in the state, including those who received no benefit from the utilities’ overpayment, the equities dictate that claimant must now seek reimbursement- from those Nassau County taxpayers who paid less than their fair share of the local tax burden as a result of the misallocation. In sum, ORPS’s acts in reviewing and certifying the ABPs were quasi-judicial and discretionary. Accordingly, defendant cannot be held hable in negligence. Moreover, claimant cannot obtain indemnification from defendant for a refund of taxes collected from the utilities in error. Cardona, P.J., Carpinello, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs. RPTL former 1803-a (7) was repealed in 1997 (see L 1997, ch 355, § 12; see also Senate Mem in Support, 1997 McKinney’s Session Laws of NY, at 2341-2342). The statute no longer requires ORPS to certify the ABPs as accurate (see RPTL 1803-a).
Mugglin, J. Appeals from a decision and an amended decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed March 19, 2002 and March 26, 2003, which, inter alia, ruled that claimant’s decedent sustained a compensable injury. Decedent, while driving his employer’s truck, suffered a myocardial infarction. The truck left the road and crashed into some trees. Claimant, decedent’s widow, filed a claim for workers’ compensation death benefits. The employer’s workers’ compensation carrier controverted the claim. Following a hearing, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge established the case for accident, notice and causal relationship and made an award of benefits. The Workers’ Compensation Board affirmed, further finding that the presumption of compensability contained in Workers’ Compensation Law § 21 (1) applied and that the physical injuries sustained by decedent in the accident contributed to his death. Thereafter, the Board issued an amended decision which superceded its prior decision and specifically found that, in light of the Workers’ Compensation Law § 21 (1) presumption, further development of the record would not alter the compensability of decedent’s death. The employer and carrier (hereinafter collectively referred to as the carrier) appeal from both decisions. It is well settled that “[u]nexplained or unwitnessed accidents which occur in the course of employment are presumed, pursuant to Workers’ Compensation Law § 21 (1), to arise out of such employment” (Matter of Wichtendahl v Arrow Bus Line, 307 AD2d 400, 401 [2003]; see Matter of Barrington v Hudson Val. Fruit Juice, 297 AD2d 886, 886-887 [2002]). “To rebut that presumption, ‘an employer must present substantial evidence to the contrary which, as a matter of law, precludes the Board from crediting any explanation of the accident except that offered by the employer’ ” (Matter of Scalzo v St. Joseph’s Hosp., 297 AD2d 883, 884 [2002], quoting Matter of Iacovelli v New York Times Co., 124 AD2d 324, 325-326 [1986]). Here, the carrier produced medical evidence demonstrating that decedent had a longstanding history of hypertension and heart disease. Based on this history and a review of all relevant documents, the carrier’s medical expert opined that decedent’s job did not cause the myocardial infarction, and that the myocardial infarction, not the motor vehicle accident, caused decedent’s demise. This evidence was sufficient to rebut the presumption and required claimant to demonstrate that decedent’s death was causally related to his job (see Matter of Barrington v Hudson Val. Fruit Juice, supra at 887). Claimant’s evidence consists of an autopsy and death certificate, both of which state that a fractured sternum was a contributing factor to decedent’s death. This injury could only have been caused by the accident. Inasmuch as the Board was empowered to resolve this conflicting medical evidence concerning the actual cause of decedent’s death in claimant’s favor (see Matter of Estate of Hertz v Gannett Rochester Newspapers, 272 AD2d 814, 814-815 [2000]; Matter of MacKenzie v Management Recruiters, 271 AD2d 822, 824 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 768 [2000]), we find no basis to disturb the Board’s determination. Nor are we persuaded by the carrier’s contention that the Board should have permitted it to cross-examine the medical examiner. While a carrier clearly has a right to cross-examine a physician whose report is on file (see Matter of Pistone v Sam’s Club, 295 AD2d 875, 875-876 [2002]; 12 NYCRR 300.10 [c]), failing to make a timely request in this regard results in a waiver of the right (see Matter of Floyd v Millard Fillmore Hosp., 299 AD2d 610, 611 [2002]; Matter of Ricci v Riegel & Sons, 278 AD2d 673, 674 [2000]). Here, contrary to the carrier’s assertions, its first and only request to cross-examine the medical examiner came on this appeal. In proceedings before the Workers’ Compensation Law Judge and the Board, the carrier requested cross-examination only of decedent’s four treating physicians. Accordingly, any right the carrier had to cross-examine this physician was waived by its failure to exercise its right in a timely fashion. Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision and amended decision are affirmed, without costs.
Kane, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed February 25, 2002, which ruled that claimant voluntarily withdrew from the labor market and denied his claim for workers’ compensation benefits. Claimant was working as a food service supervisor at a health care facility when he sustained injuries in the course of his employment in December 1996 and March 1997. He returned to active employment following each of these accidents, but stopped working in May 1997, using accumulated sick and vacation time until his retirement in August 1997, nine days prior to his 62nd birthday. He had worked for his employer for 25 years. The carrier objected to claimant’s application for workers’ compensation benefits based on an alleged withdrawal from the labor market. The Workers’ Compensation Law Judge found that claimant’s retirement was at least partially due to his work-related injuries and granted him benefits. The Workers’ Compensation Board reversed because there was no evidence that any medical professional had advised claimant to retire. This Court reversed the Board, ruling that the absence of medical advice to retire was not, by itself, controlling on the issue of whether claimant had voluntarily withdrawn from the labor market (289 AD2d 795 [2001]). We accordingly remitted for a determination “based upon all of the relevant evidence in the record” (id. at 796). On remittal, the Board again ruled that claimant voluntarily withdrew from the labor market, concluding, “based on a review of the entire record, and in particular the circumstances of claimant’s decision to retire at age 63 without having consulted with a physician, that claimant’s retirement was due solely to factors other than his established back condition.” Since the circumstances upon which the Board based its decision “in particular” are factually incorrect, we must again reverse and remit this matter. Initially, our prior remittal to the Board required it to review the evidence in the record at the time of the hearing. Contrary to the parties’ contentions, the Board correctly refused to rely upon new evidence submitted after our prior decision, as that information was not in the original record and remittal was not an invitation to supplement the record. The Board’s determination of the factual issue of whether a claimant has voluntarily withdrawn from the labor market will not be disturbed if supported by substantial evidence (see Mat ter of Griffin v Syracuse Rigging Co., 259 AD2d 925, 926 [1999]). While the Board has authority to make credibility determinations and draw reasonable inferences from the record evidence (see Matter of Baumgarten v New York State Banking Dept., 279 AD2d 741, 741 [2001]), which it did here by finding not credible claimant’s testimony relating his retirement to his work-related injuries, we cannot sustain such a determination when it is clearly based on incorrect facts or an inaccurate reading of the record (see Matter of Perry v J & S Distribs., 24 AD2d 662 [1965]). In determining that claimant retired based solely on factors not related to his injuries, the Board particularly relied on claimant’s retirement at age 63, when in fact he was 61 on the date of his retirement. The Board also particularly relied on the questionable fact that he retired “without having consulted with a physician.” The record demonstrates that claimant was under chiropractic care on a regular basis for at least 45 days prior to communicating his intent to retire. Clearly, claimant had consulted with medical professionals, contrary to the Board’s finding. While there is no evidence that claimant was specifically advised to retire, this question was never directed to claimant at the hearing. Given the infirmities in the stated bases for the Board’s decision, we must reverse. Mercure, J.P., Peters, Spain and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is reversed, with costs, and matter remitted to the Workers’ Compensation Board for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Cannizzaro, J.), entered October 4, 2002 in Albany County, which, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, granted respondents’ motion to dismiss the petition. Petitioner, by agreement with the operator of the City Hall Café (hereinafter City Café), the licensee of a food concession in Albany City Hall, placed advertising flyers for his school in the City Café. In October 2001, the licensee was informed by the Office of the Corporation Counsel of respondent City of Albany that placement of such advertising was unlawful. The advertising material was immediately removed by the licensee who informed petitioner of this occurrence. On November 5, 2001, in a telephone conference, respondent Deputy Corporation Counsel specifically advised petitioner that placement of such advertising was unlawful. Following an exchange of correspondence between petitioner and respondent Corporation Counsel, petitioner instituted this CPLR article 78 proceeding on April 8, 2002 challenging the determination. Supreme Court granted respondents’ preanswer motion and dismissed the petition as barred by the applicable statute of limitations and, alternatively, because petitioner failed to state a cause of action. Petitioner appeals. A CPLR article 78 proceeding must be commenced within four months after the determination sought to be reviewed becomes final and binding (see Matter of American Tr. Ins. Co. v New York State Dept. of Motor Vehs., 305 AD2d 840, 841 [2003]). Such an administrative determination becomes final and binding when it definitively impacts and aggrieves the party seeking judicial review (see New York City Off Track Betting Corp. v State of NY. Racing & Wagering Bd., 196 AD2d 15, 18 [1994], lv denied 84 NY2d 804 [1994]). The burden of establishing binding finality rests with the municipality (see Matter of Turner v Bethlehem Cent. School Dist., 265 AD2d 640, 641 [1999]). Here, the notification to petitioner of the removal of his advertising material in October 2001 clearly establishes that he was aggrieved as of November 5, 2001 when the City’s position was conveyed to him. Such oral notification is sufficient to commence the running of the statute of limitations where, as here, petitioner is adversely impacted and aggrieved (see Bargstedt v Cornell Univ., 304 AD2d 1035, 1036-1037 [2003]; see also Matter of Vadell v City of N.Y. Health & Hosps. Corp., 233.AD2d 224, 225 [1996]). Petitioner’s subsequent correspondence, sent in an attempt to obtain a reversal of this determination, does not extend or toll the statute (see Matter of Filut v New York State Educ. Dept., 91 AD2d 722, 723 [1982], lv denied 58 NY2d 609 [1983]; Matter of Harford Taxpayers for Honest Govt. v Town Bd. of Town of Harford, 252 AD2d 784, 786 [1998]). Consequently, this proceeding is time-barred. Mercure, J.P, Peters and Spain, JJ., concur; Lahtinen, J., not taking part. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Rose, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed April 1, 2002, as amended by decision filed April 15, 2002, which ruled that CBI Services, Inc. was the employer in whose employ decedent was last exposed to asbestos. Decedent retired after working from 1966 to 1989 for various employers installing and removing insulation containing asbestos. In 1997, he was diagnosed with lung cancer and he filed a claim for workers’ compensation benefits, alleging that his lung cancer was due to injurious exposure to asbestos in 1975 while he was employed by Insulation Distributors, Inc. (hereinafter IDI). By decision filed March 23, 1999, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge (hereinafter WCLJ) found occupational disease, notice and causal relationship for decedent’s lung cancer, set February 21, 1997 as his date of disablement, and directed that, pending further proceedings, benefits be paid by the workers’ compensation carrier for IDI (see Workers’ Compensation Law § 25 [1] [f]). The Workers’ Compensation Board reviewed decedent’s claim and affirmed the WCLJ’s findings. Noting, however, that a different carrier might be liable if decedent did not suffer from a dust disease (compare Workers’ Compensation Law § 44-a [assigning liability to employer at time of worker’s last exposure to injurious dust], with Workers’ Compensation Law § 44 [assigning liability to last employer where worker’s employment was in the nature of that which caused the disease]), the Board returned the case to the trial calendar for further development of the record on the issue of dust disease and to identify the carrier or carriers on risk. After obtaining a partial settlement of a third-party action consented to by the carrier for IDI, decedent died in November 1999. Claimant, decedent’s widow, then filed this claim for death benefits. On December 11, 2001, in separate but identical decisions on the disability and death claims, the WCLJ took no further action on the disability claim due to the third-party settlement, established accident, notice and causal relationship for death due to lung cancer from exposure to asbestos, and, in the death claim, concluded that the medical evidence did not support a finding that decedent suffered from asbestosis, a dust disease. The WCLJ also found that decedent’s last exposure to asbestos was during his employment with CBI Services, Inc. from December 1987 to November 1989 and held CBI’s carrier at that time, National Union Fire Insurance Company, liable on the death claim. CBI, National Union and its administrator, Crawford & Company, requested that the death claim be reopened because National Union and Crawford & Company allegedly had not received notice and an opportunity to be heard. In an April 2002 amended decision, the Board denied the request and found CBI to be liable on the death claim because the medical evidence did not support a finding of asbestosis and CBI was the employer who last employed decedent “in the employment to the nature of which the disease was due” (Workers’ Compensation Law § 44). It also accepted Crawford & Company’s argument that liability should attach to CBI’s carrier on the date of decedent’s disablement, which carrier had not yet been identified. This appeal by CBI and National Union ensued. Initially, we find no merit in the contention that CBI and National Union were deprived of due process by the alleged failure to place National Union and Crawford & Company on notice before the WCLJ assessed liability on claimant’s death claim in 2001. Workers’ Compensation Law § 54 (2) provides that “notice to or knowledge of the occurrence of the injury on the part of the employer shall be deemed notice or knowledge . . . on the part of the insurance carrier” (see Matter of Klouse v City of Albany, 194 AD2d 941, 942 [1993]). The record reflects that CBI was identified as a potentially liable employer at a hearing in September 1998 and notices of subsequent proceedings were sent to CBI. Beginning in 1998, notices were also sent to National Union, albeit in care of another of its third-party administrators. While National Union may not have received the notices because its address or its administrator of record was incorrect, the Board reasonably requires employers and carriers to ensure that correct addresses are on file (see e.g. Matter of Rite Aid Corp., 2003 WL 1958491 [WCB Nos. 6930 8433, 6980 0396, Apr. 16, 2003]; Matter of Marbro Realty Corp., 2002 WL 31497207 [WCB No. 0983 3375, Nov. 5, 2002]). Thus, we find no error in the imputation of notice to National Union (see Workers’ Compensation Law § 54 [2]) and there is no requirement that additional notice be given to its third-party administrator (see Matter of Mount Sinai Hosp., 2003 WL 21545656 [WCB No. 0941 1066, July 7, 2003, ]; Matter of Tully Constr. Co., 2001 WL 1010769, *1 [WCB No. 2000 6157, Aug. 9, 2001] [“Notice to one is notice to all.”]; compare Matter of TCI of Brookhaven, 1999 WL 33267196 [WCB No. 2971 7756, Dec. 8, 1999] [WCLJ decision rescinded where third-party administrator requested, but was not given, notice of subsequent proceedings]). We also reject the argument that the Board’s finding of liability on the part of CBI and National Union is unsupported by substantial evidence or inconsistent with its earlier findings as to decedent’s disability claim. Significantly, in the disability case, the issue of which employer and carrier were liable was never finally resolved. Thus, on the death claim, when the medical evidence failed to support a finding that decedent suffered from a dust disease, the Board properly ascertained the liable employer and carrier pursuant to Workers’ Compensation Law § 44 rather than section 44-a (see Matter of Matice v Groveton Papers Co., 85 AD2d 841, 842-843 [1981], lv denied 57 NY2d 601 [1982]). Moreover, while we agree that there is no evidence that decedent had an injurious exposure when he last worked with asbestos insulation in 1989, such a contention has no relevance to the determination of liability pursuant to Workers’ Compensation Law § 44. Decedent’s testimony before his death indicated that he had worked with asbestos while employed by CBI in that year. Thus, the Board’s finding that CBI was the last employer who did the kind of work that caused decedent’s lung cancer has a rational basis and is supported by substantial evidence. Lastly, inasmuch as decedent’s settlement of his third-party personal injury claim related only to his disability claim, which is separate and distinct from claimant’s application for death benefits (see Martin v Agway Petroleum Corp., 161 AD2d 1129, 1130 [1990]), there is no merit whatsoever to the contention that CBI and National Union should be discharged from liability because they did not consent to the settlement. Crew III, J.P., Spain, Carpinello and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed March 28, 2002, which ruled that claimant’s decedent did not sustain a compensable injury. Decedent, a delivery truck driver, suffered a fatal heart attack while making deliveries for the employer. There is no evidence of decedent’s precise activity at the time that he was stricken or if anyone witnessed the event. Claimant, decedent’s widow, filed a claim for workers’ compensation death benefits and the State Insurance Fund, the employer’s workers’ compensation carrier, controverted the claim. Following a hearing, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge found an adequate basis for the claim and that the presumption of compensability contained in Workers’ Compensation Law § 21 applied. On appeal, the Workers’ Compensation Board reversed and closed the case on the ground that claimant failed to submit any medical evidence in support of her position that decedent’s death was causally related to his employment. Claimant now appeals. We agree with claimant that the Board erred in requiring her to come forward, in the first instance, with prima facie medical evidence of a causal relationship between decedent’s death and his employment. Under the facts of this case, “the scant evidence concerning the circumstances of decedent’s death compels application of Workers’ Compensation Law § 21 (1), which provides that unwitnessed deaths that occur in the course of employment are presumed to arise out of that employment” (Matter of Barrington v Hudson Val. Fruit Juice, 297 AD2d 886, 886-887 [2002]; see Matter of Wichtendahl v Arrow Bus Line, 307 AD2d 400, 401 [2003]; Matter of Scalzo v St. Joseph’s Hosp., 297 AD2d 883, 884 [2002]). Instead of producing substantial evidence to rebut the presumption (see Matter of Scalzo v St. Joseph’s Hosp., supra at 884), the carrier argued that claimant must produce prima facie medical evidence establishing a causal relationship between decedent’s employment and his death. The Board’s reliance on disability (as contrasted with death) cases in accepting this argument and ruling in the carrier’s favor was error. Mercure, J.P., Spain, Carpinello and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is reversed, with costs, and matter remitted to the Workers’ Compensation Board for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Kane, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Moynihan, Jr., J.), entered November 26, 2002 in Warren County, which, inter alia, in a combined proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 and action for declaratory judgment, partially granted a motion by respondents Jean M. Rooney and Michael R. Micheli to dismiss the petition/complaint. In June 2002, petitioner commenced this combined CPLR article 78 proceeding and declaratory judgment action to challenge the 1998 approval by respondent Town of Lake George Planning Board (hereinafter the Board) to subdivide Cooper Point Island in the Town of Lake George, Warren County, and its 2002 approval which slightly altered the property lines of the previously subdivided parcels. Petitioner also sought a declaration that the remaining respondents, the Island owners and their contract vendee, failed to comply with conditions earlier imposed by the Board. Respondents Jean M. Rooney and Michael R. Micheli brought a preanswer motion to dismiss. The other respondents raised affirmative defenses in their answers or cross-moved to dismiss. Supreme Court severed the declaratory judgment cause of action (5th cause of action) and joined it with a related action. The court dismissed the cause of action alleging lack of notice of the 1998 and 2002 public hearings (2nd cause of action). The court also dismissed, as time-barred, the remaining causes of action to the extent that they challenged the 1998 approval, the challenge to the 2002 approval’s classification as a minor subdivision, and the Board’s application of a zoning classification. Petitioner appeals. In determining motions to dismiss under CPLR 7804 (f) or 3211, the “court may not look beyond the petition and must accept all” its allegations as true (Matter of Scott v Commissioner of Correctional Servs., 194 AD2d 1042, 1043 [1993]; see Matter of Mattioli v Casscles, 50 AD2d 1013 [1975]). Only affidavits submitted by petitioner and exhibits attached to the petition may be considered on such a preanswer motion (see Matter of Board of Educ., Lakeland Cent. School Dist. of Shrub Oak v State Educ. Dept., 116 AD2d 939, 941 [1986]). Although Supreme Court improperly considered affidavits submitted by respondents, the petition, exhibits and affidavits submitted by petitioner provide sufficient support for the court’s decision. State law and town subdivision regulations only required notice of the Board’s public hearings on the 1998 and 2002 subdivision approvals by publication in a local newspaper (see Town Law § 276 [5] [d] [ii]; Code of Town of Lake George § 150-7 [E]). Such publication accorded petitioner with all the notice to which it was entitled. Because petitioner did not allege that the Board’s informal notice policy was motivated by an intent to discriminate on the basis of impermissible considerations, petitioner did not properly allege that' the Board’s failure to provide it individualized notice created a constitutional equal protection violation (see Matter of Northway 11 Communities v Town Bd. of Town of Malta, 300 AD2d 786, 788-789 [2002]). Thus, Supreme Court properly dismissed petitioner’s second cause of action claiming inadequate notice. A 30-day statute of limitations applies to any challenges concerning the Board’s decisions (see Town Law §§ 267-c, 282). To determine when the statute of limitations began, a court must first ascertain what administrative decision is actually being presented for review, then determine when that decision became final and binding (see Matter of City of Saratoga Springs v Zoning Bd. of Appeals of Town of Wilton, 279 AD2d 756, 758 [2001] , appeal withdrawn 96 NY2d 915 [2001]). Challenges to the Board’s 1998 subdivision approval are time-barred, and references or reaffirmations of that approval in the 2002 approval do not renew or revive the limitations period for the 1998 decision (see Matter of Save the Pine Bush v Town Bd. of Town of Guilderland, 272 AD2d 689, 691-692 [2000]). Petitioner’s attempts to estop respondents from asserting a statute of limitations defense is unavailing. Although inducement “by fraud, misrepresentations or deception to refrain from filing a timely action” can result in such estoppel (Simcuski v Saeli, 44 NY2d 442, 448-449 [1978]; see Matter of Saferstein v Lawyers’ Fund for Client Protection, 298 AD2d 726, 727-728 [2002] , lv denied 99 NY2d 505 [2003]), that remedy “is generally unavailable against a municipality” (Matter of Platzman v Munno, 282 AD2d 539, 539 [2001]; see Matter of Gelbard v Board of Zoning Appeals of Inc. Vil. of New Hyde Park, 238 AD2d 419, 420 [1997], lv denied 91 NY2d 807 [1998]). Additionally, here, there is no allegation that the Board engaged in any fraud, misrepresentation or deception upon which petitioner relied. The Board cannot be estopped from raising the statute of limitations based on alleged fraud and misrepresentations by the remaining respondents. Supreme Court properly dismissed as time-barred petitioner’s challenges to the 1998 approval and narrowed challenges to the 2002 approval—which merely altered the property lines of the lots involved in the 1998 subdivision approval—so as to prevent review of any matter actually decided in 1998, but mentioned or reaffirmed in the later approval. Supreme Court also properly severed the fifth cause of action and paired it with the related action for trial. Severance may be ordered “[i]n furtherance of convenience” (CPLR 603; see CPLR 407), and the trial court’s determination will not be disturbed absent abuse of discretion or prejudice to a party’s substantial rights (see Finning v Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., 281 AD2d 844, 844 [2001]). Petitioner was not deprived of its day in court on its fifth cause of action, but was simply required to share that day with the companion action rather than this CPLR article 78 proceeding. Considering the similarity of issues presented, this solution was convenient for the court and the litigants. Crew III, J.P, Spain, Carpinello and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs. . This Court recently addressed summary judgment motions in the related action (see Green Harbour Homeowners’ Assn. v G.H. Dev. & Constr., 307 AD2d 465 [2003]). . Such matters include the Board’s zoning classification of the area encompassing the subdivision and the characterization of the application as a “minor” subdivision approval.
Crew III, J.E Appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims (Collins, J.), entered February 25, 2002, upon a decision of the court following a bifurcated trial in favor of defendant. In May 1998, claimant, an inmate at Eastern Correctional Facility in Ulster County, was injured while playing a game of paddleball on one of the facility’s handball courts. As a consequence, claimant commenced this action against defendant to recover damages for his injuries. Following a bifurcated trial, the Court of Claims granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the claim and this appeal ensued. The evidence at trial reflects that the exercise yard at Eastern Correctional Facility includes six paved courts used for paddle-ball and handball. In January 1998, the area between courts three and four was excavated to repair a broken pipeline. Following repair, the excavation was filled with soil, but not repaved because of weather conditions. On the day he was injured, claimant, an avid and experienced paddleball player, was engaged in a game of paddleball on court two when a missed shot angled off the wall in the direction of courts three and four. Claimant ran to retrieve the ball and, as he did so, he stumbled on the unpaved area between courts three and four where the excavation had taken place. The record makes plain that the unpaved area was open and obvious and that claimant was well aware of its existence. In fact, claimant testified that it was his practice to avoid courts three and four whenever possible because of that condition. It is now abundantly clear that while an owner of a sporting venue has a duty to exercise reasonable care to make conditions as safe as they appear to be, if a risk of a sporting activity is fully comprehended and/or perfectly obvious, a sporting participant will be deemed to have consented to such conditions and the owner will be deemed to have performed his or her duty (see Morgan v State of New York, 90 NY2d 471, 484 [1997]). Here, claimant, an experienced paddleball player, conceded that he was fully aware of the complained of hazard prior to beginning play and that, when possible, he would avoid playing on courts three and four because of it. It is equally clear that when playing paddleball one can anticipate the necessity to retrieve errant balls, and such activity would be considered part and parcel of the sport. Inasmuch as claimant acknowledged his appreciation of the defect complained of and his awareness of a risk of injury by reason of it, he must be deemed to have voluntarily assumed the risk that he might encounter that defect while pursuing an errant ball (see Bockelmann v New Paltz Golf Course, 284 AD2d 783, 784 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 602 [2001]). Accordingly, the Court of Claims properly dismissed the claim. Spain, Carpinello, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Lahtinen, J. Appeal from an order of the Court of Claims (Read, EJ.), entered October 17, 2002, which, inter alia, granted claimant’s cross motion for partial summary judgment on the issue of liability under Labor Law § 240 (1). Claimant, an employee of Pike Construction Company, was working on a project that Pike had contracted to perform on premises owned by defendant. As part of the project, claimant and a coworker, William Smith, were directed to remove four-inch PVC piping that was partially filled with concrete debris from a pipe chase. The pipe chase was estimated to be 6 feet wide and 12 feet high. The PVC pipes were suspended by wire approximately two feet below the ceiling of the pipe chase. While standing on the top rung of a six-foot ladder that rested against a wall in the pipe chase, Smith cut the wires holding one section of PVC pipe with one hand and attempted to hold the pipe with his other hand. Smith was unable to hold the pipe, which weighed about 150 pounds, and it fell on claimant as he secured the bottom of the ladder. This claim, premised upon alleged violations of the Labor Law, ensued. Both parties eventually moved for summary judgment. After a thorough discussion of the pertinent law, the Court of Claims dismissed so much of the claim as alleged violations of Labor Law §§ 200 and 241 (6), but granted claimant partial summary judgment under Labor Law § 240 (1). Defendant appeals. It is now well settled that cases involving both a falling worker and a falling object may come within the ambit of Labor Law § 240 (1) (see Narducci v Manhasset Bay Assoc., 96 NY2d 259, 267 [2001]). While the statute is liberally construed to accomplish its purpose of affording protection to workers (see Melber v 6333 Main St., 91 NY2d 759, 762 [1998]), caution must nevertheless be exercised not to stretch the statute’s reach beyond that intended by the Legislature since it incorporates the extraordinary remedy of absolute liability (see Perchinsky v State of New York, 232 AD2d 34, 37-38 [1997], lv dismissed and denied 91 NY2d 830 [1997], lv denied 93 NY2d 812 [1999]; Allen v Hodorowski & DeSantis Bldg. Contrs., 220 AD2d 959, 960 [1995]). Hence, to come within the protection afforded by the statute, an injured worker generally must show, at a minimum, that a relevant safety device was absent or defective and that such absence or defect was a proximate cause of a gravity-related injury (see Narducci v Manhasset Bay Assoc., supra at 267-268; Felker v Corning Inc., 90 NY2d 219, 224-225 [1997]; Ross v Curtis-Palmer Hydro-Elec. Co., 81 NY2d 494 [1993]). Here, as explained by the Court of Claims, claimant established that he was assigned to assist in dismantling a pipe located 10 feet above his work level, the pipe was too heavy for Smith to handle alone, no safety devices were provided to protect claimant and the pipe fell on him. The manner in which this task was attempted by Smith and claimant, with the one ladder they had in the pipe chase, necessarily placed claimant in a position where he was at risk of being struck by a falling object. A supervisor from Pike testified that a scissor lift was generally used to do this type of work and, when asked at his deposition about using a ladder, the supervisor responded that two ladders should have been placed in the pipe chase so that the workers could have worked together to hold the pipe and then safely move it down to the floor of the pipe chase. Moreover, no safety devices, such as a sling, hanger or rope, were provided to secure this drain pipe and protect these workers from the hazard of the drain pipe falling while being dismantled (see Labor Law § 240 [1]). We agree with the Court of Claims that claimant’s proof established a prima facie violation of Labor Law § 240 (1) and defendant failed to submit adequate evidence to raise a factual issue. Finally, we find unpersuasive defendant’s contentions that claimant’s bill of particulars failed to provide sufficient notice of his theories of liability and that the accident was an ordinary hazard of a construction site. Mercure, J.P., Spain, Carpinello and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs.
Peters, J. Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed October 31, 2002,. which, inter alia, ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because he refused an offer of suitable employment without good cause. Claimant was registered with a personnel agency that specialized in finding both temporary and permanent employment. During the time when he was receiving unemployment insurance benefits, the agency scheduled him for an interview with a newspaper for a “temporary to permanent” position in their accounts receivable department., On the morning of the interview, claimant received an e-mail invitation, to interview with a different company for a permanent job that he would have preferred. He made an appointment for an interview with the second company and did not appear for the interview scheduled by the agency. Claimant subsequently certified to the local unemployment insurance office that he had not refused an offer of suitable employment during the reporting period. The Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits on the ground that he had refused an offer of suitable employment without good cause (see Labor Law § 593 [2]). In addition, he was charged with an overpayment in benefits and a forfeiture of eight effective days based on the finding that he made willful false statements to obtain benefits (see Labor Law § 594). Claimant appeals, asserting that he may not be disqualified from receiving benefits for refusing an offer of suitable employment when no offer of employment was actually tendered. We disagree. It is uncontested that claimant never received a job offer; however, failure to keep an appointment for a job interview may constitute a refusal of an offer of suitable employment (see Matter of Baehr [Hartnett], 177 AD2d 904 [1991]). Here, the testimony discloses that claimant could have attended both interviews. Instead, he intentionally chose not to attend the interview with the first company based upon his hope that he would receive an offer of employment from the second company. From this, it was found that claimant’s failure to keep the appointment with the first company was due to personal and noncompelling reasons. As this was tantamount to a refusal of an offer of suitable employment, there exists substantial evidence supporting the determination to disqualify him from the receipt of benefits (see id. at 905). Whether claimant knowingly made false statements to obtain benefits is a question of fact for the Board to determine. As the Board determined that claimant’s failure to interview with the first company constituted a refusal of an offer of suitable employment, we find substantial evidence to support the further determination that he could be charged with a recoverable overpayment (see Matter of Herrera [Sweeney], 239 AD2d 778 [1997]). Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Crew III and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Feters, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Kavanagh, J.), entered June 14, 2002 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CFLR article 78, to review a determination of the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York finding that petitioner was a nonresponsible bidder. Fetitioner, a construction business, is owned by Frank Di Tommaso and Feter Di Tommaso who are also principals in many other related businesses. In July 2001, the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York (hereinafter Authority) solicited bids for construction work at the Bronx Criminal Courthouse. After the first three low bids were withdrawn, petitioner was informed, by letter dated November 5, 2001, that although it was the next lowest bidder, the Authority “preliminarily deeme[d] [it] to be not responsible” due to unresolved issues raised by the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, the New York City Trade Waste Commission, the New York City School Construction Authority, the New York City Department of Investigation and the New York City Comptroller. By letter from the Authority dated November 14, 2001, petitioner’s request for a hearing was denied and it was given five days to present further information to support its application and refute the preliminary findings. After reviewing petitioner’s additional submission, the Authority, by decision dated November 30, 2001, adopted its preliminary findings. The Authority gave significant consideration to the letters it received from the New York City Department of Investigation and Office of the Comptroller. Moreover, it noted the still ongoing investigation by the New Jersey Casino Control Commission which left significant relevant issues unresolved despite 13 days of testimony. Pinpointing several major concerns and annexing all supporting documentation, the Authority concluded: “[W]hen taken together, [these facts] demonstrate a lack of sensitivity in dealing with Organized Crime members and associates. Lack of sensitivity relates to the issue of integrity. [Petitioner] and its principals repeatedly place themselves in situations that give at the very least an appearance that they are unconcerned with whom they employ or conduct business. Finally, [petitioner] has engaged in transactions with no apparent purposes with individuals connected with Organized Crime.” Petitioner commenced this proceeding seeking, among other things, to annul the Authority’s determination. Supreme Court dismissed the petition and this appeal ensued. In matters of this kind, our review is limited to assessing whether there is a rational basis to support the determination rendered, with the evidentiary burden resting upon the petitioner (see Matter of Franbilt, Inc. v New York State Thruway Auth., 282 AD2d 963, 964-965 [2001], lv denied 97 AD2d 602 [2001]; Matter of Adelaide Envtl. Health Assoc. v New York State Off. of Gen. Servs., 248 AD2d 861, 862 [1998]; Matter of Schiavone Constr. Co. v Larocca, 117 AD2d 440, 444 [1986], lv denied 68 NY2d 610 [1986]). Although petitioner explained its involvement with individuals identified by various investigative authorities as organized crime figures, unresolved investigations by other agencies can serve as a rational basis for a nonresponsibility determination (see Matter of N.J.D. Elecs. v New York City Health & Hosps. Corp., 205 AD2d 323, 324 [1994]; Matter of Positive Transp. v City of N.Y. Dept. of Transp., 183 AD2d 660, 661 [1992]; Matter of Schiavone Constr. Co. v Larocca, supra at 444; Matter of Konski Engrs. v Levitt, 69 AD2d 940, 942 [1979], affd 49 NY2d 850 [1980], cert denied 449 US 840 [1980]). Upon our review of the extensive record evidence, we reject petitioner’s contention that the findings are merely “an impression of guilt by association” (Matter of DeMatteis Constr. Corp. v Dinkins, 190 AD2d 621, 621 [1993], lv denied 81 NY2d 711 [1993]). Nor do we find violations of procedural due process. State Administrative Procedure Act article 3 indicates its applicability “solely to adjudicatory proceedings required by law to be made on the record” (Matter of Mary M. v Clark, 100 AD2d 41, 43 [1984]; see State Administrative Procedure Act § 102 [3]). As the instant proceeding does not fall within these parameters, petitioner has no viable due process claim thereunder. Moreover, a “ ‘formal trial-type hearing’ is not necessary [where, as here,] the bidder receive [d] notice of the reason for the rejection and an opportunity to refute the findings upon which it is based” (Matter of Granger & Sons v State of N.Y. Facilities Dev. Corp., 207 AD2d 596, 597 [1994]; see Matter of Tully Constr. Co. v Hevesi, 214 AD2d 465, 466 [1995]; Matter of Schiavone Constr. Co. v Larocca, supra at 443). For these reasons, including the availability of this proceeding at the conclusion of the administrative process, “petitioner was afforded all the process that it is due” (Matter of Granger & Sons v State of N.Y. Facilities Dev. Corp., supra at 597; see John Gil Constr. v Riverso, 72 F Supp 2d 242, 255 [1999]; Matter of Tully Constr. Co. v Hevesi, supra at 466). Having considered and rejected petitioner’s remaining contentions as without merit, we affirm. Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Carpinello and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from that part of a judgment of the Supreme Court (Breen, J.), entered December 27, 2002 in Washington County, which partially denied plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the verdict or for a new trial. Defendant Arcady Realty Corporation was formed by the Goldsmith family to hold title to its property in the Town of Dresden, Washington County. Defendant Smith E. Goldsmith is its managing director. As such, he verbally contracted with defendant Ray Martindale to cut timber on Arcady’s property in portions of lot 155 in the Southbay tract and all of lot 18 in said tract. Plaintiffs own lot 17, which is bordered by lot 155 on the north and lot 18 on the east. Lots 17 and 18, in the vicinity of their common boundary, are steep, heavily wooded and marked by rock ledges or cliffs. Sometime between 1996 and 1999, Martindale, while logging lot 18, encroached on approximately 31 acres of lot 17 and cut and removed over 800 trees. After indictment, he pleaded guilty to grand larceny in the third degree and prohibited disposal of solid waste. As a result of a bankrúptcy filing the day before trial, this civil action against him was severed. With respect to Arcady and Goldsmith, the jury found no violations of RPAPL 861, no negligence, no trespass and no unjust enrichment. Plaintiffs’ verbal posttrial motions to set aside the verdict as against the weight of the evidence and for judgment notwithstanding the verdict were denied. Plaintiffs’ subsequent written motion to set aside the verdict or for a new trial was also denied, except that the unjust enrichment verdict was set aside and plaintiffs were awarded judgment in the amount of $14,787 with interest from April 1, 1999. Plaintiffs appeal and argue that these motions (as well as their motion at the close of proof for a directed verdict) should have been granted because the uncontroverted evidence established that Arcady and Goldsmith violated RPAPL 861, were negligent and committed a trespass as a matter of law. We disagree and affirm. The evidence at trial was that Goldsmith and Martindale reached an agreement that Arcady was to receive one third of the profit from the sale of hardwood and $7 per cord for hemlock. Goldsmith took Martindale to the property and pointed out a utility pole on the common boundary between lots 17 and 18 and advised him that under no circumstances should he cut timber westerly of the line marked by the pole. It is undisputed that the common boundary line is approximately one-half mile long and that it was not otherwise surveyed or marked prior to Martindale’s logging operation. Plaintiffs’ argument at trial was that Martindale and Goldsmith’s relationship was a joint venture, i.e., that Martindale was not an independent contractor. Plaintiffs also theorized at trial and continue to argue on this appeal that rather than going to the utility pole, which plaintiffs’ subsequent survey confirms is on the property line, Goldsmith took Martindale to a different utility pole halfway into lot 17. Faced with these issues of fact, Supreme Court correctly denied plaintiffs’ motion for a directed verdict (see Palmier v United States Fid. & Guar. Co., 135 AD2d 1057 [1987]). When presented with the motion to set aside the verdict, Supreme Court was required to view the evidence in the light most favorable to the nonmovant (see Campbell v City of Elmira, 198 AD2d 736, 737 [1993], affd 84 NY2d 505 [1994]). Thus viewed, the court must “ ‘conclude that there is simply no valid line of reasoning and permissible inferences which could possibly lead rational [persons] to the conclusion reached by the jury on the basis of the evidence presented at trial’ ” (id. at 737, quoting Cohen v Hallmark Cards, 45 NY2d 493, 499 [1978]; see Lachanski v Craig, 141 AD2d 995, 996 [1988]; Sternberg v Foreign Cars of New Paltz, 140 AD2d 822, 823 [1988]; Kozlowski v City of Amsterdam, 111 AD2d 476, 477 [1985]). A trial court should grant a motion for a new trial when “ ‘the evidence so preponderate [d] in favor of the [plaintiff] that [the verdict] could not have been reached on any fair interpretation of the evidence’ ” (Lolik v Big V Supermarkets, 86 NY2d 744, 746 [1995], quoting Moffatt v Moffatt, 86 AD2d 864, 864 [1982], affd 62 NY2d 875 [1984]; see Plante v Hinton, 294 AD2d 679, 680 [2002]; Marshall v Lomedico, 292 AD2d 669, 670 [2002]; Zeigler v Wolfert’s Roost Country Club, 291 AD2d 609, 610 [2002]). On this record, the jury could rationally conclude, after resolving credibility issues, that Martindale, as an independent contractor, intentionally trespassed on plaintiffs’ property. The jury could also rationally conclude that Goldsmith knew the location of the common boundary and neither negligently nor intentionally directed Martindale to enter plaintiffs’ premises. To be liable for a trespass, a defendant must intend the intrusion (see Kulpa v Stewart’s Ice Cream, 144 AD2d 205, 207 [1988]; Chartrand v State of New York, 46 AD2d 942, 943 [1974]). There is no evidence in this record that Goldsmith or Arcady intended to trespass on plaintiffs’ property. Further, when one retains an independent contractor, there is no liability for the negligent acts of the independent contractor, unless negligent instructions were given to the independent contractor (see Leger v Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp., 291 AD2d 603, 604 [2002]). Again, there is no evidence of negligent instruction in this record. With respect to liability under RPAPL 861, Arcady and Goldsmith can be liable even if Martindale is an independent contractor, if “they directed the trespass or such trespass was necessary to complete the contract” (Axtell v Kurey, 222 AD2d 804, 805 [1995], lv denied 88 NY2d 802 [1996]). Again, this record contains no evidence that Goldsmith either directed the trespass or that the trespass was necessary to complete the contract. On the contrary, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to Arcady and Goldsmith, Goldsmith correctly located the utility pole on the common boundary and directed Martindale to stay east of the line. Since lot 18 is bordered by the town road, it was not necessary to trespass to complete the contract and since Martindale pleaded guilty to grand larceny, he has admitted his intent to trespass and remove timber belonging to plaintiffs. Accordingly, Supreme Court correctly refused to set aside the verdict or order a new trial. Lastly, in view of our determination, we need not discuss the issue of damages. Mercure, J.P., Spain, Carpinello and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, with costs. Plaintiffs’ reliance on Hollenbeck v Genung (198 AD2d 677 [1993]), that failure to obtain a survey is negligence as a matter of law, is misplaced. There, the defendant cut and removed 12 trees that both parties knew were at or near their common boundary. A subsequent survey revealed that nine trees were on the defendant’s property and three trees were on the boundary line creating a tenancy in common in these trees as between the parties. Our observation that the defendant’s failure to either survey the line or obtain the plaintiffs consent prior to cutting was negligence, not recklessness, was made in determining the plaintiffs right to treble damages. We did not hold that failure to obtain a survey and mark a property line was negligence as a matter of law under all factual scenarios.
Crew III, J. Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Albany County) to review a determination of respondent which denied petitioner’s applications for accidental and performance of duty disability retirement benefits. In May 1995, petitioner, previously employed as a police sergeant for the Town of Ramapo in Rockland County, applied for accidental and performance of duty disability retirement benefits based upon injuries to his lumbar and cervical spine allegedly sustained in November 1992. Such applications initially were denied based upon a finding that petitioner was not permanently incapacitated from the performance of his duties. Shortly thereafter, and based upon review of a subsequent MRI study, David Tucker, the orthopedic surgeon testifying on behalf of the Retirement System, concluded that petitioner indeed had a herniated disk at the L5-S1 level and, therefore, was permanently incapacitated from the performance of his duties as a police sergeant. Tucker, however, was of the view that, inasmuch as this finding did not appear on the MRI studies taken shortly after petitioner sustained his injuries, the herniated disk observed could not be causally related to the 1992 accident. Petitioner’s applications again were denied, and petitioner sought review of respondent’s determination via this CPLR article 78 proceeding. Upon review, this Court annulled respondent’s determination based upon a violation of State Administrative Procedure Act § 307 (2) and remitted the matter to respondent for a de novo determination based upon the existing record (262 AD2d 920 [1999]). Respondent thereafter denied petitioner’s applications but, upon subsequent review to this Court, we again annulled the underlying determination, finding that respondent had focused exclusively upon the causal relationship between the injury to petitioner’s lumbar spine and the November 1992 incident and neglected to consider the relationship, if any, between the injury to petitioner’s cervical spine and the November 1992 incident (287 AD2d 930 [2001]). Upon remittal, the Hearing Officer concluded that petitioner was not permanently incapacitated as a result of the injury to his cervical spine and that petitioner’s disabling lumbar injury was not causally related to the November 1992 incident. As a result, respondent denied petitioner’s applications yet again, triggering another round of review in this Court. The crux of petitioner’s argument on review is that respondent erred in crediting Tucker’s testimony regarding the nature and extent of petitioner’s injuries. In this regard, Tucker opined that, based upon his review of petitioner’s 1992 MRI studies, petitioner had a narrowing of the disk space at the L4-5 level. Such finding, according to Tucker, did not correlate with the symptoms that petitioner experienced at the SI level, where Tucker observed no pathology on the MRI study. Although Tucker noted a herniated disk at the L5-S1 level on the 1996 MRI study and agreed that such finding would permanently incapacitate petitioner from the performance of his duties, he concluded that this disabling condition was not causally related to the November 1992 incident because there was no indication of any pathology at the L5-S1 level on the 1992 MRI studies. In response, petitioner contends that there indeed was evidence of a bulging disk at the L5-S1 level on the 1992 MRI study and that Tucker failed to see it due to his lack of training in reading such films. We cannot agree. As a starting point, despite a lack of formal training in radiology, we cannot say, given Tucker’s occupation and experience, that he was unqualified to read petitioner’s MRI studies (see Price v New York City Hous. Auth., 92 NY2d 553, 559 [1998]; Matter of Lampidis v Mills, 305 AD2d 876, 878-879 [2003]). Moreover, even accepting petitioner’s claim that there was evidence of a bulging disk at the L5-S1 level on the 1992 MRI films, petitioner’s treating physician, Michael Resnick, conceded that he treated petitioner for a degenerative disk at the L5-S1 level in 1989, which could have resulted from “aging, wear and tear,” and that the herniated disk noted at that location on the 1996 MRI study could have been a continuation of that process. Thus, although Resnick insisted that the herniated disk at the L5-S1 level was the result of petitioner’s 1992 accident, he could not rule out the possibility that such finding was the product of a process that began years earlier. Under such circumstances, there is no basis for the wholesale rejection of Tucker’s testimony, and respondent was free to credit Tucker’s testimony over that offered by petitioner’s physician (see Matter of Proia v McCall, 306 AD2d 735 [2003]). With regard to the injury to petitioner’s cervical spine, Tucker noted the presence of “a small herniated disk at the C5-6 level . . . slightly to the right of the midline with minimal compression on the spinal cord.” As petitioner’s complaints of tingling and numbness in the fingertips were primarily on the left side, Tucker opined that the positive finding on the MRI did not correlate with petitioner’s actual symptoms and, therefore, the injury to petitioner’s cervical spine did not permanently incapacitate him from the performance of his duties. Although petitioner’s physician offered a contrary opinion, that presented factual and credibility issues for respondent to resolve. Petitioner’s remaining contentions, including his claim that he was denied due process, have been examined and found to be lacking in merit. Cardona, P.J., Mugglin, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Mercure, J.E Appeal from that part of an order of the Supreme Court (Cannizzaro, J.), entered March 25, 2003 in Rensselaer County, which denied defendant Stephen J. Huneau Jr.’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against him. This action arises out of an August 2000 three-car accident in the City of Troy, Rensselaer County. The accident occurred after defendant Juan Rivera’s vehicle, traveling at a high rate of speed, tipped onto two wheels and crossed into a lane of oncoming traffic. Rivera’s vehicle hit a car driven by defendant Stephen J. Huneau Jr. (hereinafter defendant), in which Christina Sollenberger and plaintiff Cynthia Sollenberger were passengers. Defendant had swerved to the left in an attempt to avoid Rivera’s vehicle. After the collision, Rivera’s vehicle slid into defendant Erika E. Whipple’s car, which had come to a complete stop a few car lengths behind defendant’s vehicle. Flaintiffs thereafter commenced this action against defendant, Whipple, Rivera and James Forette, the owner of the vehicle that Rivera was driving, seeking damages for personal injuries suffered as a result of the accident. The parties stipulated to a scheduling order that required all depositions to be completed by September 15, 2002, any dispositive motions to be made returnable by December 1, 2002, and a note of issue and certificate of readiness to be filed on December 1, 2002 as well. Nevertheless, depositions were not completed until the end of January 2003. Flaintiffs filed a note of issue on January 29, 2003 and defendant moved for summary judgment on February 14, 2003. As relevant here, Supreme Court dismissed defendant’s motion as untimely for failing to meet the December 1, 2002 deadline for dispositive motions. Defendant appeals and we now reverse the denial of defendant’s motion. Initially, we agree with defendant that Supreme Court should have considered his motion for summary judgment on the merits. Defendant made his motion within two weeks of plaintiffs’ filing of a note of issue and approximately three weeks after depositions were completed. Inasmuch as defendant was required to wait for the return of the final deposition transcripts upon which he intended to rely (see CPLR 3212 [b]; 3116 [a]; see also Fainberg v Dalton Kent Sec. Group, 268 AD2d 247, 248 [2000]), the motion could not be timely filed by the date set forth in the parties’ stipulation. Moreover, the delay beyond the filing of the note of issue—which was also late under the stipulation—was minimal and, in our view, plaintiffs have failed to demonstrate any prejudice. We also note that Supreme Court considered and granted both a late motion by plaintiffs for a default judgment against Rivera and a late motion by Forette for dismissal of the complaint against him due to a lack of personal jurisdiction. Thus, while the parties did stipulate to a December 1, 2002 deadline and despite the “wide latitude” afforded to Supreme Court “with respect to determining whether ‘good cause’ exists for permitting late motions” (Rossi v Arnot Ogden Med. Ctr., 252 AD2d 778, 779 [1998]), we conclude that the better course here would have been for Supreme Court to consider defendant’s motion on the merits (see Kenner v T.J. Maxx, 305 AD2d 547, 547 [2003]; La Hendro v Nadeau, 281 AD2d 717, 718 [2001]). Turning to the merits, we agree with defendant that he is entitled to dismissal of the complaint against him. The emergency doctrine “ ‘recognizes that when an actor is faced with a sudden and unexpected circumstance which leaves little or no time for thought, deliberation or consideration, or causes the actor to be reasonably so disturbed that the actor must make a speedy decision without weighing alternative courses of conduct, the actor may not be negligent if the actions taken are reasonable and prudent in the emergency context’ ” (Caristo v Sanzone, 96 NY2d 172, 174 [2001]). This Court has repeatedly held that a driver is faced with an emergency situation when a car going in the opposite direction crosses into the driver’s lane (see e.g. Lamey v County of Cortland, 285 AD2d 885, 886 [2001]; Wenck v Zillioux, 246 AD2d 717, 718 [1998]; Davis v Pimm, 228 AD2d 885, 886 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 815 [1996]; Palmer v Palmer, 31 AD2d 876, 877 [1969], affd 27 NY2d 945 [1970]). While the question of whether a driver reacted reasonably when faced with an emergency situation is generally for the trier of fact, “ ‘[s]ummary resolution is possible . . . when the driver presents sufficient evidence to establish the reasonableness of his or her actions and there is no opposing evidentiary showing sufficient to raise a legitimate question of fact on the issue’ ” (Lamey v County of Cortland, supra at 886, quoting Smith v Brennan, 245 AD2d 596, 597 [1997]). Here, defendant testified that he first saw Rivera’s oncoming car traveling in the proper lane. He looked briefly to his right and used his right hand to change a track on his CD player. When he looked back at the road, Rivera’s car was in his lane and he had only a split second to react before the accident occurred. Whipple, who was in the car behind defendant’s, also testified that less than two seconds passed from the time that Rivera’s vehicle crossed the line and the time it collided with defendant’s vehicle. Both defendant and Whipple testified that they were unable to veer to the right because cars were parked along the street. Moreover, the police accident report attributed the cause of the accident to Rivera’s vehicle crossing over the center line into defendant’s lane of travel. In our view, this evidence established that defendant acted reasonably under the circumstances. Although defendant looked to the right just before Rivera’s vehicle passed into his lane, this act cannot be considered a cause of the accident inasmuch as “it is axiomatic that a driver in his or her proper lane of travel is not required to anticipate that a vehicle proceeding in the opposite direction will cross over into oncoming traffic” (Wenck v Zillioux, supra at 718). Plaintiffs’ claims that defendant might have had time to reduce his speed or take other evasive action are speculative given the uncontroverted evidence that defendant had no more than two seconds to react (cf. Ashley v Martin, 295 AD2d 846, 847-848 [2002]; Fratangelo v Benson, 294 AD2d 880, 881 [2002]). Inasmuch as these claims suggest, at most, an error in judgment on defendant’s part in responding to the emergency situation caused by Rivera, they are insufficient to defeat defendant’s motion for summary judgment (see Lamey v County of Cortland, supra at 887; Lamica v Shatlaw, 235 AD2d 809, 810-811 [1997]; Davis v Pimm, supra at 887). Peters, Spain, Mugglin and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as denied defendant Stephen J. Huneau Jr.’s motion; motion granted, summary judgment awarded to said defendant and complaint dismissed against him; and, as so modified, affirmed. We note that CPLR 3212 (a) provides that “the court may set a date after which no . . . motion [for summary judgment] may be made, such date being no earlier than [30] days after the filing of the note of issue.” The parties’ stipulation, however, acted as a waiver of this statutory right (see generally Trump v Trump, 179 AD2d 201, 204 [1992], appeal dismissed 80 NY2d 892 [1992], lv denied 80 NY2d 760 [1992]). Thus, we cannot say that the setting of December 1, 2002 as the deadline for both filing of the note of issue and the return date of dispositive motions constituted, in itself, error.
Lahtinen, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Sheridan, J.), entered July 2, 2002 in Albany County, which, inter alia, dismissed petitioners’ application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review two determinations of respondent Public Service Commission finding that respondents Queens Public Communications Corporation and Manhattan Community Access Corporation were in compliance with 9 NYCRR 595.4 (c) (10). Cable television operators are generally required, as part of the franchise granted by municipalities, to provide a public access channel on their systems (see 47 USC § 531 [a]; Public Service Law § 215 [2] [b]; see generally Goldberg v Cablevision Sys. Corp., 193 F Supp 2d 588, 590 [2002]). Respondent Public Service Commission (hereinafter PSC) regulates the cable television industry in New York (see Public Service Law § 211) and has promulgated rules pertaining to public access channels (see 9 NYCRR 595.4). Petitioner Association of Cable Access Producers (hereinafter ACAP), a public access user and advocate, requested from respondents Queens Public Communications Corporation (hereinafter QPTV) and Manhattan Community Access Corporation (hereinafter MCAC), administrators of public access channels in Queens and New York Counties, their “records of use,” which are required to be retained under 9 NYCRR 595.4 (c) (10). Unsatisfied with the information provided, ACAP petitioned the PSC for a declaratory ruling that 9 NYCRR 595.4 (c) (10) requires administrators of public access channels to maintain log books containing the names and addresses of all persons requesting use of public access channels, the date and time of each request, the name of the program associated with each request, the channels and times requested for each use and, if use was permitted, the date and time of actual use. In two separate rulings, the PSC declared that a program guide setting forth the date and time of each program, coupled with a list of the names and addresses of all persons using or requesting the use of public access channels, was sufficient to comply with the regulation. The information provided or offered to ACAP by QPTV and MCAC was determined by the PSC to comply with its interpretation of the regulation. ACAP and its officers commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding in Albany County challenging the PSC’s interpretation of the relevant regulation. Thereafter, petitioners filed an amended petition adding two causes of action against QPTV alleging violations of the Freedom of Information Law (see Public Officers Law art 6) and the Open Meetings Law (see Public Officers Law art 7) after learning that QPTV had denied their Freedom of Information Law request for certain information upon the ground that QPTV is not a governmental agency. QPTV sought severance and a change of venue to Queens County regarding the newly added second and third causes of action. Supreme Court upheld the PSC’s determinations and, thus, dismissed the first cause of action. QPTV’s application for a change of venue was granted as to the second and third causes of action. Petitioners appeal. Petitioners initially contend that the PSC erred in determining that the relevant regulation does not mandate administrators of public access channels to keep log books setting forth the date and time of each request for use. “[T]he interpretation given to a regulation by the agency which promulgated it and is responsible for its administration is entitled to deference if that interpretation is not irrational or unreasonable” (Matter of Gaines v New York State Div. of Hous. & Community Renewal, 90 NY2d 545, 548-549 [1997]; see Matter of Council of City of N.Y. v Public Serv. Commn. of State of N.Y., 99 NY2d 64, 74 [2002]; Matter of Medina v Building Maintenance Serv., 302 AD2d 774, 776 [2003]). The regulation in dispute, 9 NYCRR 595.4 (c) (10), provides: “The entity responsible for the administration of a public access channel shall maintain a record of the use of such channel which shall include the names and addresses of all persons using or requesting the use of any such channel and which record shall be available for public inspection for a minimum of two years.” The PSC’s interpretation of what constitutes a sufficient record of use results in a requirement that a public access channel administrator keep program guides disclosing channel usage and maintain a list of the names and addresses of those who use or request air time. This interpretation is consistent with the plain language of the regulation and cannot be characterized as irrational or unreasonable. Nothing in the regulation directs administrators to record the date and time of each request. We find unpersuasive petitioners’ argument that the requirement in 9 NYCRR 595.4 (c) (4) that access be provided on a “first-come, first-served” basis can be enforced only if 9 NYCRR 595.4 (c) (10) is construed as requiring a detailed daily log. There is no indication that 9 NYCRR 595.4 (c) (10) was intended as an enforcement mechanism for 9 NYCRR 595.4 (c) (4). The PSC, as the agency charged with enforcing the rules regarding public access channels, has a procedure in place for complaints (see 9 NYCRR 595.4 [f] [2]) and is clothed with adequate investigatory powers to ensure compliance with the pertinent rules (see Public Service Law § 216). Moreover, the history of 9 NYCRR 595.4 (c) (10) does not support petitioners’ position since it is not disputed that the regulation was characterized, at the time it was proposed, as requiring only “minimum” or “minor recordkeeping” (NY Reg, Feb. 24, 1988, at 12). Next, we address petitioners’ contention that Supreme Court abused its discretion in granting QPTV’s motion to change venue with respect to the second and third causes of action. A trial court is afforded considerable discretion in addressing venue motions and its decision generally will not be disrupted in the absence of an abuse of discretion (see Frank v Martuge, 285 AD2d 938, 940 [2001]). The first cause of action, which has now been dismissed, provided the basis for bringing this proceeding in Albany County. The second and third causes of action involve ACAP and QPTV. Both entities have their principal places of business in Queens and the president and treasurer of ACAP (an unincorporated association) reside in Queens. Witnesses material to QPTV’s defense of the Freedom of Information Law and Open Meetings Law claims reside in Queens, are volunteers within its not-for-profit corporation, and would have to travel approximately 150 miles each way to testify. Under all the circumstances presented, we find no abuse of discretion in Supreme Court’s determination to change venue (see Ithaca Peripherals v Sequoia Pac. Sys. Corps., 141 AD2d 909, 910 [1988]; James McKinney & Son v Lake Placid 1980 Olympic Games, 84 AD2d 635 [1981]). Petitioners’ remaining arguments have been considered and found either unpreserved or unpersuasive. Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Crew III and Peters, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Rose, J. Appeal from an order of the County Court of Rensselaer County (McGrath, J.), entered July 24, 2002, which partially granted petitioners’ application pursuant to County Law § 701 for payment of services as special district attorney, associate counsel and investigative staff. On this appeal, we hold that a flat fee award is not reasonable compensation for the services of a duly appointed special district attorney. After approximately one third of the charges in the four indictments obtained by petitioner Michael Katzer (hereinafter petitioner) were dismissed before trial, and the two trials resulted in acquittals, he, along with his associate counsel and investigative staff, commenced this proceeding for an award of fees pursuant to County Law § 701. Petitioner reported that he had personally spent 1,724.45 hours over a period of 23 months investigating the underlying charges of misconduct against five of respondent’s employees, obtaining the indictments and prosecuting the two actions through trial, and he sought an hourly rate of $166 for his time, adjusting for inflation the hourly rate of $100 deemed reasonable by this Court for a special district attorney in Matter of Harvey v County of Rensselaer (190 AD2d 261, 265 [1993], appeal dismissed 82 NY2d 846 [1993], revd on other grounds 83 NY2d 917 [1994]). County Court initially declined to set any hourly rate on the ground that criminal defense counsel generally charge a flat fee rather than an hourly rate. The court then reviewed the results obtained, deemed the reported hours to be excessive and awarded petitioner a flat fee of $40,000 for each of the two jury trials. Lesser flat fee amounts were awarded to his associate counsel and staff. The court’s decision, however, does not set forth how it arrived at the amount of these flat fee awards. Rather, County Court sought to show the reasonableness of the amount of petitioner’s award by multiplying two thirds of his reported hours by what it termed a “blended” hourly rate of $70 to yield a comparable award of $80,000. The court explained that it blended the hourly rate because “many hours logged consisted of preparatory work as opposed to pure legal work.” However, there is no finding of the number of hours or the hourly rates for each category of work. County Court also reduced the number of hours by one third, explaining that one third of the original criminal charges had been no-billed or dismissed. However, it made no finding that the hours were unnecessary, nor did it articulate inefficiency or ineffectiveness as the reasons for their elimination. In addition, County Court did not address respondent’s specific objections to petitioner’s time records. County Law § 701 leaves the amount of fees to be awarded to a special district attorney to the sound discretion of the trial court■, specifying only that there be “reasonable compensation” (County Law § 701 [5]; see Matter of Harvey v County of Rensselaer, supra at 264). This Court, however, has prescribed that “the court’s discretion should be guided by . . . (1) the reasonableness of the attorney’s hourly rate and (2) the reasonableness of the amount of time spent by the attorney on the matter” (Matter of Harvey v County of Rensselaer, supra at 264). The reasonableness of an hourly rate turns upon several factors, such as the complexity of the action, the degree of expertise needed to properly handle it and the community’s fee standards for legal services performed for the public and paid from public funds (see id. at 264-265; Matter of Quill v Cathedral Corp., 241 AD2d 593, 594 [1997], lv denied 90 NY2d 812 [1997]; Matter of Rahmey v Blum, 95 AD2d 294, 302-303 [1983]). Likewise, the reasonableness of the hours spent turns upon other factors, such as the type of work done, the specificity of counsel’s time records, the competence and necessity of the services performed, and the results achieved (see Matter of Harvey v County of Rensselaer, supra at 265; Matter of Rourke v New York State Dept. of Correctional Servs., 245 AD2d 870, 870-871 [1997]; Matter of Rahmey v Blum, supra at 300-301). Moreover, the court should multiply the number of hours found to be reasonable by a reasonable hourly rate, and then adjust the fee upward or downward based on any other relevant factor, specifying the reasons for the adjustment based on the facts of the particular case (see Podhorecki v Lauer’s Furniture Stores, 201 AD2d 947, 948 [1994]; Matter of Rahmey v Blum, supra at 300-305). Here, despite acknowledgment of these guidelines, County Court’s flat-fee awards were arbitrary because they ignore both the method approved in Matter of Harvey and the fact that assigned defense counsel paid from public funds are regularly compensated on an hourly basis (see County Law § 722-b). Thus, they have no rational support in the mere fact that private defense counsel usually charge flat fees. Similarly Unavailing is the alternate route to the same award taken by County Court in reducing the number of hours by a percentage of dismissed charges and then multiplying the result by a blended hourly rate. Reduction of petitioner’s hours in proportion to the percentage of dismissed charges was arbitrary because County Court did not explain its reasons for doing so, and there is no basis in the record to conclude that the excluded hours were expended solely on the dismissed charges or that they were without any value. While County Court could have examined petitioner’s, time records to determine if any hours were unnecessary, inefficient or unproductive and reduced the allowable hours accordingly (see Matter of Rourke v New York State Dept. of Correctional Servs., supra at 870-871), its decision reflects no such inquiry. Finally, County Court’s use of a blended hourly rate also has no rational support in the record. While there is authority for distinguishing counsel’s in-court time from out-of-court legal services or clerical work (see Burke v Crosson, 191 AD2d 998, 999 [1993]; Becker v Empire of Am. Fed. Sav. Bank, 177 AD2d 958, 958 [1991]; Matter of Rahmey v Blum, supra at 301), County Court failed to quantify the hours attributable to each type of work or determine the different hourly rates appropriate for each. In the absence of such an explanation, it will be difficult, if not impossible, for a reviewing court to determine if the award was within the proper exercise of the court’s discretion. Because County Court did not follow the analytical approach described in Matter of Harvey v County of Rensselaer (supra at 265) and Matter of Rahmey v Blum (supra at 300-305), the order must be reversed and the matter remitted for determination of the appropriate hourly rates, allowable hours and resulting reasonable compensation for the services of petitioner, his associate counsel and investigative staff. Crew III, J.P., Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, without costs, and matter remitted to the County Court of Rensselaer County for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Williams, J.), entered December 24, 2002 in Saratoga County, which, inter alia, granted a motion by defendants Monument Pizza, Inc. and Michael Roods for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against them. During the evening of November 21, 2000, while on the premises of defendant Monument Pizza, Inc., which was owned by defendant Michael Roods (hereinafter collectively referred to as defendants), plaintiff, a 13-year-old, was stabbed in the abdomen by defendant George McGeever. As relevant to this appeal, the complaint alleges that defendants were negligent for failing to properly manage and supervise the pizzeria and for violating Labor Law § 130, which generally prohibits the employment of persons under the age of 14. Following joinder of issue and completion of discovery, defendants moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against them, contending that they did not breach any duty owed to plaintiff, that plaintiff was not an employee of defendants and that if plaintiff was an employee of defendants, her sole remedy was workers’ compensation. Plaintiff opposed the motion and cross-moved for summary judgment striking defendants’ answer and directing an inquest on the issue of damages. Supreme Court granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment and dismissed plaintiffs complaint. Plaintiff appeals. We affirm. “It is axiomatic that an employee injured during his or her employment is limited in his or her remedy to workers’ compensation unless the injury was due to an intentional tort perpetrated by the employer or at the employer’s direction” (Hahne v State of New York, 290 AD2d 858, 859 [2002] [internal quotation marks and citations omitted]). Whether the employment is lawful or illegal does not alter the rule (see O’Rourke v Long, 41 NY2d 219, 223 [1976]). This record presents an issue of fact as to whether plaintiff was “permitted or suffered to work” within the meaning of Labor Law § 2 (7). This issue is to be resolved by the Workers’ Compensation Board (see id. at 224), as it has primary jurisdiction with respect to such determinations (see Botwinick v Ogden, 59 NY2d 909, 911 [1983]). Thus, the courts are an improper forum for the resolution of such issues (see Corp v State of New York, 257 AD2d 742, 743 [1999]; see also Liss v Trans Auto Sys., 68 NY2d 15, 20 [1986]; Besaw v St. Lawrence County Assn. for Retarded Children, 301 AD2d 949, 950 [2003]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs. The claim against McGeever was previously settled.
Spain, J. Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Sullivan County) to review a determination of respondent which found that petitioner violated certain racing regulations. Petitioner, a doctor of veterinary medicine licensed to practice at racetracks in this state (see Racing, Pari-Mutuel Wagering and Breeding Law § 309), worked for many years in the 1990s as the veterinarian for trainer Joseph Minieri at barn Double A at Monticello Raceway. On three race dates in November 1999, postrace urine tests of four horses trained by Minieri, for whom petitioner administered veterinary care, tested positive for naloxone, an analgesic forbidden to be administered to horses within seven days of the start of a racing program (see 9 NYCRR 4120.2 [f]; 4043.1 [h]; 4043.2 [f]). Respondent’s initial investigation focused on Minieri, whose license was suspended for several intervals. However, by May 2000, Minieri—along with grooms and horse owners connected to barn Double A—implicated petitioner in the injection of unknown substances into horses on race days. During that time petitioner gave statements to investigators for respondent admitting to administering naloxone to horses after races, but never before races, and denied administering the drug to any of Minieri’s horses. On December 29, 2000, respondent mailed petitioner an order to show cause charging him with nine counts of violating its rules and seeking to revoke his license and to expel him from racetracks in this state (see Racing, Pari-Mutuel Wagering and Breeding Law § 309 [2] [e]; 9 NYCRR 4102.3 [a] [1], [4]; 5402.3). Five of the charges pertained to allegations that on five dates in November 1999, petitioner injected four horses with naloxone within 24 hours of the start of a racing program, knowing that the respective horses were scheduled for a race in that program. Petitioner was also charged with conspiring to violate respondent’s rules, failing to report the conspiracy, failing to keep written records of the subject injections, and failing to maintain records of his animal visits, diagnoses and treatments during 1999 and 2000. Additional charges related to his alleged failure to give accurate and complete testimony and records to respondent and systematic and unlawful administration of restricted substances to racehorses on race days during the past several years (see 9 NYCRR 4119.7 [a] [5]; [d]; 4119.8 [g]; 4119.9 [a]). Following a hearing held over the course of several months, a Hearing Officer concluded that respondent had proven petitioner’s violation of the charges and recommended that he be suspended and his license revoked (9 NYCRR 5402.6 [d], [e]). Respondent thereafter adopted the Hearing Officer’s findings (see 9 NYCRR 5402.8), adding that petitioner had “regularly, unlawfully administered restricted substances at Monticello Raceway to racehorses on race days over the preceding several years, a pattern of violations and corrupt and fraudulent conduct that is detrimental to the best interests of harness racing and which renders him an undesirable person in racing” (see 9 NYCRR 4119.7 [a], [b]; 4119.8, 4119.9 [a]). Petitioner thereafter commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding in Supreme Court (Meddaugh, J.), which properly reviewed petitioner’s potentially dispositive claims related to lack of jurisdiction, bias and the amendment of the charges and, after rejecting them, transferred the proceeding to this Court to address the substantial evidence issue (see CPLR 7804 [g]). As an initial matter, we find no error in the Hearing Officer’s refusal to recuse himself as petitioner failed to make a motion directly to respondent as required by the governing procedures (see 9 NYCRR 5402.7 [a]). In any event, petitioner did not substantiate .his claim that the Hearing Officer had participated in the investigation of these charges. Additionally, the Hearing Officer’s position as an investigator with respondent prior to becoming a Hearing Officer in November 1999 (the same month the positive drug tests here occurred) did not render him biased or require disqualification (cf. Matter of Beer Garden v New York State Liq. Auth., 79 NY2d 266, 279 [1992]; Adika v Corbisiero, 154 AD2d 299, 300 [1989], lv denied 75 NY2d 707 [1990]). With regard to petitioner’s reliance on certain e-mail messages in November 1999 transmitted by and among the Hearing Officer and other émployees of respondent related to the November 2, 1999 positive drug test result, these messages clearly referred to Minieri and not petitioner. While the Hearing Officer’s e-mail response was unfortunate and might have given the impression that he had prejudged the trainer (see Matter of Beer Garden v New York State Liq. Auth., supra at 278), this familiarity with the facts regarding the trainer did not require disqualification when petitioner was later charged (see Matter of Donlon v Mills, 260 AD2d 971, 974 [1999], lv denied 94 NY2d 752 [1999]). Further, the Hearing Officer stated on the record that he did not follow nor was he involved in the investigation against petitioner, and a review of the record of these proceedings supports the conclusion that they were conducted in a fair and impartial manner (see 9 NYCRR 5402.5 [a]). Also rejected are petitioner’s contentions that respondent lacked jurisdiction over him because he did not receive notice of the charges until after his license had expired by its own terms on December 31, 1999 and that respondent could not revoke an expired license. While framed under the rubric of jurisdiction, in reality petitioner’s claim is that the penalty of license revocation was not available once his license expired. However, respondent has clear authority to suspend or revoke licenses which it has issued based upon conduct committed by a licensee during the term of the license (see Racing, Pari-Mutuel Wagering and Breeding Law § 309 [2] [e]; see also 9 NYCRR 4102.3 [a] [1]; [b]). Since the administrative action was timely commenced, it is not rendered void merely because the final determination (with penalties) was made after petitioner allowed his license to expire by not renewing it and, indeed, this Court has recognized that an expired license may be revoked (see Matter of Maine Sugar of Montezuma v Wickham, 37 AD2d 381, 383-384 [1971]; see also Matter of Mendel & Son v New York State Dept. of Agric. & Mkts., 90 AD2d 567, 567 [1982], appeal dismissed 58 NY2d 970 [1983], lv denied 58 NY2d 610 [1983]). Neither the governing statutes and regulations nor case law supports the conclusion that allowing a license to expire divests the issuing agency of authority to impose penalties against the licensee, including revocation or suspension. Moreover, the expiration of the license had no bearing on other penalties—such as fines or expulsion from harness racing—which are undeniably available against persons “whether licensed by the commission or not” (9 NYCRR 4102.3 [b]; see 9 NYCRR 4102.1, 4119.7 [a]; 4119.8). Next, we agree with Supreme Court’s extended analysis that the Hearing Officer properly permitted respondent, during its presentation of its case at the hearing, to amend the time period alleged in the order to show cause to charge that petitioner in each incident had injected the horses with naloxone “within seven (7) days, and within 24 hours” of the race as proscribed by 9 NYCRR 4120.2 (f) (see 9 NYCRR 5402.3 [b] [2] [ii]). The original charges stated that the injections had been administered “within 24 hours” of the racing program, citing 9 NYCRR 4120.2 (c), which so proscribes injections of certain specified substances, but does not pertain to naloxone. Respondent requested the amendment to correctly cite the governing regulation’s subdivision—4120.2 (f)—and to conform to the medical proof following testimony by the director of respondent’s drug testing and research program. The Hearing Officer issued a written decision granting the amendment, finding no prejudice to petitioner, and adjourned the hearing for a considerable period to permit him to defend against the amendments. Petitioner never requested that any of respondent’s witnesses be recalled for further cross-examination. In our view, under all of the circumstances, petitioner received fair notice and reasonable time to prepare and present a defense to the amended charges (see Matter of Block v Ambach, 73 NY2d 323, 332-333 [1989]). Finally, a review of the ample, credible evidence and testimony reveals that, in all respects, respondent’s determination was based upon substantial evidence, including expert veterinarian testimony that, based upon the five respective positive postrace test results, naloxone had been administered to the horses within the proscribed period before each respective race and definitely within seven days (see 300 Gramatan Ave. Assoc. v State Div. Human Rights, 45 NY2d 176, 181 [1978]). The sworn statements and testimony of Minieri and other barn employees demonstrated that petitioner was essentially the exclusive veterinarian for the horses that Minieri trained, and petitioner was seen carrying syringes and injecting the horses prior to their respective races, using the others as lookouts and as persons to hold or tie the horses down. Petitioner’s denial of ever injecting these or any horses prior to races, like some of the variations between certain witnesses’ statements to investigators and their hearing testimony and allegations of witness bias, presented credibility issues for the Hearing Officer to resolve (see Matter of Block v Ambach, supra at 335; Matter of Berenhaus v Ward, 70 NY2d 436, 443-444 [1987]; Matter of Goldsmith v DeBuono, 245 AD2d 627, 630 [1997]). The remaining charges concerned petitioner’s documented failure to keep records, which was not refuted. We have similarly reviewed petitioner’s remaining contentions and find that they lack merit. Crew III, J.P., Carpinello, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Crew III, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Monserrate, J.), entered July 1, 2002 in Broome County, which, inter alia, denied defendants’ motion to vacate a judgment entered against them. On November 1, 1995, defendants entered into a broker fee agreement with plaintiff, pursuant to the terms of which plaintiff was to, inter alia, assist defendants in obtaining a mortgage secured by certain real property located in the Town of Vestal, Broome County. A brokerage fee in the amount of $4,875 was to be included in and paid out of the underlying mortgage at closing. Although a mortgage was obtained and the contemplated closing took place, for reasons not entirely clear from the record, the brokerage fee due was not paid. Plaintiff thereafter sued defendants in New Jersey Superior Court seeking to recover the $4,875 brokerage fee associated with the underlying transaction. The asserted basis for jurisdiction was credit extended to defendants in Middlesex County, New Jersey. Following service of defendants’ answer, plaintiff moved for summary judgment. Defendants opposed plaintiffs motion and cross-moved for summary judgment raising various defenses, including lack of jurisdiction, improper venue and statute of limitations. New Jersey Superior Court granted plaintiffs motion for summary judgment and judgment was entered in favor of plaintiff in the amount of $6,331.96, plus costs and postjudgment interest. In March 2002, the New Jersey judgment was filed in the office of the Broome County Clerk and, on or about April 1, 2002, defendants were served with a notice of filing of a foreign judgment. Following the issuance of an income execution, defendants moved to, inter alia, vacate the underlying judgment, contending that it had been procured by fraud and that the New Jersey court lacked jurisdiction. Supreme Court, inter alia, denied defendants’ motion to vacate and this appeal ensued. We affirm. The case law makes clear that “[a] judgment rendered by a court of a sister State is accorded ‘the same credit, validity, and effect, in every other court of the United States, which it had in the state where it was pronounced’ ” (All Terrain Props. v Hoy, 265 AD2d 87, 91 [2000], quoting Hampton v M’Connel, 3 Wheat [16 US] 234, 235 [1818]; see JDC Fin. Co. I v Patton, 284 AD2d 164, 166 [2001]). As a matter of full faith and credit, our review of the foreign judgment at issue is limited to “whether the rendering court had jurisdiction” (Fiore v Oakwood Plaza Shopping Ctr., 78 NY2d 572, 577 [1991], cert denied 506 US 823 [1992]). This inquiry, in turn, requires us to ascertain “whether the sister state’s long arm statute has been complied with, and whether that court’s exercise of jurisdiction comports with Federal constitutional principles of due process” (JDC Fin. Co. I v Patton, supra at 166). An evaluation of the merits of the dispute is not permitted, as the facts have bearing only in the limited context of jurisdiction (see Fiore v Oakwood Plaza Shopping Ctr., supra at 577). As Supreme Court aptly noted, defendants do not assert a lack of personal jurisdiction. Indeed, they readily acknowledge that they appeared in the New Jersey action and made appropriate motions in their attempt to vigorously defend such action. Rather, defendants contend that their contractual dealings with plaintiff lacked sufficient “minimum contacts” to confer subject matter jurisdiction in New Jersey (see generally Blakey v Continental Airlines, 164 NJ 38, 66, 751 A2d 538, 554-555 [2000]). We cannot agree. Although the actual closing apparently took place in New York, the broker fee agreement executed by defendants clearly identifies plaintiff as a New Jersey entity and the affidavit in support of substituted service predicates jurisdiction based upon the extension of credit by plaintiff to defendants in Middlesex County, New Jersey. That being the case, and given the business dealings between the parties leading up to the closing, it should come as no surprise to defendants that their failure to pay the brokerage fee due resulted in litigation in New Jersey. Defendants appeared and contested the issue of jurisdiction in the New Jersey action and, that issue having been decided against them, they cannot attempt to relitigate that issue here. Accordingly, Supreme Court properly denied defendants’ motion to vacate the New Jersey judgment. Cardona, P.J., Feters, Carpinello and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs.
Crew III, J.E Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Relihan, Jr., J.), entered January 30, 2003 in Broome County, which, inter alia, granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint. In August 2001, plaintiff and defendant entered into a contract pursuant to the terms of which plaintiff agreed to purchase certain property owned by defendant in the Town of Sanford, Broome County. When plaintiff failed to obtain a mortgage commitment within the 30-day period specified in the contract, defendant refused to complete the sale, prompting plaintiff to commence this action for specific performance. Following plaintiff’s subsequent failure to respond to various discovery demands, defendant moved to compel discovery or strike the pleadings. Supreme Court, inter alia, denied the motion, directed defendant to accept the delinquent responses without prejudice and sanctioned plaintiff. Thereafter, counsel for the parties entered into negotiations regarding the scheduling of plaintiffs deposition and, ultimately, such deposition was set for November 18, 2002. Shortly before the agreed-upon date, counsel for plaintiff advised that the deposition conflicted with the opening day of hunting season and, further, that plaintiff, who resided out of state, had failed to make the necessary arrangements to attend. Defendant refused to reschedule the deposition and, when plaintiff failed to appear, moved to dismiss the complaint. Supreme Court granted the motion, canceled plaintiffs notice of pendency and ordered her to pay defendant’s costs on the motion. This appeal by plaintiff ensued. We affirm. While dismissal of a complaint indeed is a drastic sanction, such action is warranted where, as here, there is a clear showing that the plaintiff has willfully or contumaciously refused to comply with discovery demands (see Brothers v Bunkoff Gen. Contrs., 296 AD2d 764, 765 [2002]). After refusing to comply with defendant’s initial discovery demands until a motion to compel had been brought, plaintiff failed to appear for a long-scheduled deposition despite having been advised by counsel that her attendance was mandatory (compare Fraracci v Lasouska, 283 AD2d 735 [2001]). In short, given plaintiffs demonstrated pattern of willful noncompliance with defendant’s discovery demands, we perceive no abuse of discretion in Supreme Court’s decision to dismiss the complaint. Peters, Spain, Carpinello and. Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed October 22, 2002, which ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because her employment was terminated due to misconduct. Claimant was employed as the local station manager of a religious broadcasting network. In December 2001, she was verbally reprimanded for refusing, initially, to contact a client to relate the employer’s decision—which claimant disagreed with— not to air the client’s program. In January 2002, claimant was placed on a 90-day period of probation for insubordination, based upon her preparation of a positive letter of recommendation for a former employee, allegedly after disagreeing with the employer’s decision to terminate the individual. During her probationary period, claimant criticized her employer in front of a subordinate on several occasions and, ultimately, was overheard in a public area of the employer’s premises expressing her dissatisfaction with the employer’s management to her pastor, following his appearance on one of the station’s programs. Reversing the decision of the Administrative Law Judge, the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board ruled that claimant had lost her employment due to disqualifying misconduct. Claimant’s contentions on appeal largely focus on credibility determinations which were within the Board’s province to resolve (see Matter of Pagan [Haig Press—Commissioner of Labor], 305 AD2d 845, 845 [2003]; Matter of Kim [Commissioner of Labor], 262 AD2d 693, 694 [1999]). Substantial evidence supports the Board’s decision finding that claimant exhibited a pattern of insubordination and active disagreement with her supervisors’ practices and policies in a manner which demonstrated a disrespect for the employer and undermined the employer’s authority. Accordingly, the Board’s determination that claimant’s behavior constituted disqualifying misconduct will not be disturbed (see Matter of Pagan [Haig Press— Commissioner of Labor], supra; Matter of Smith [New Venture Gear—Commissioner of Labor], 278 AD2d 634 [2000]; Matter of Roman [Commissioner of Labor], 277 AD2d 589 [2000]). Mercure, J.P, Crew III, Peters, Spain and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Carpinello, J. Appeal from that part of an order of the Supreme Court (Aulisi, J.), entered March 14, 2003 in Warren County, which denied a motion by defendant Raleigh America, Inc. for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it. After limited discovery, defendant Raleigh America, Inc. (hereinafter defendant) sought summary dismissal of plaintiff’s complaint on the ground that plaintiffs failure to preserve critical evidence caused it extreme prejudice. The sparse record reveals the following. Plaintiff was riding a bicycle purportedly manufactured by defendant’s predecessor when its chain allegedly snapped, causing him to fall and suffer personal injury. A bystander who witnessed the accident assisted plaintiff by transporting him and, later, his bicycle from the scene. This bystander avers that, at the time of the incident, he observed the broken chain lying on the ground but did not retrieve it. Several weeks later, after recovering somewhat from his injuries, plaintiff returned to the site of the accident intending to find the chain, to no avail. In support of its application for dismissal, defendant contended that its ability to defend the action, premised as it is on an allegedly defective bicycle chain, had been severely prejudiced by plaintiff’s failure to preserve it. Supreme Court denied the motion, defendant appeals and we now affirm. It is true that the intentional or negligent loss of key evidence before it has been examined by an adversary’s expert can result in the dismissal of a party’s pleadings (see Barber v Kennedy Gen. Contrs., 302 AD2d 718, 720 [2003]; Squitieri v City of New York, 248 AD2d 201, 202 [1998]). However, such a drastic remedy is typically imposed in cases where the offending party knew, or had reason to know, that the missing evidence was the subject of pending or future litigation (see Horace Mann Ins. Co. v E.T. Appliances, 290 AD2d 418, 419 [2002]; Cummings v Central Tractor Farm & Country, 281 AD2d 792, 793 [2001], lv dismissed 96 NY2d 896 [2001]). In addition, we note that determinations of this type are reviewed on an abuse of discretion standard (see Puccia v Farley, 261 AD2d 83, 85 [1999]). In this context, we cannot say that denial of defendant’s motion was an abuse of discretion. First, defendant’s application appears to have been made prior to any deposition testimony of plaintiff delineating the details of the accident. Moreover, on the record before us, it cannot be said that the failure to preserve the chain was negligent in light of the exigent circumstances requiring plaintiffs immediate removal from the scene to address his injuries. Lastly, we find no indication that plaintiff knew, or should have known, at the time of the accident that the chain would become the subject of future litigation. Crew III, J.P, Spain, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs.
Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Demarest, J.), entered June 20, 2002 in Franklin County, which, inter alia, denied plaintiffs motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff, as trustee of a revocable living trust, owns a parcel of real property in the Town of Altamont, Franklin County, which abuts a parcel of property formerly owned by defendants (hereinafter the Crouse parcel). It is undisputed that, as of the commencement of this action, a portion of plaintiffs property had been used since 1960 by the occupants of the Crouse parcel as a means of ingress and egress to the Crouse parcel. Plaintiff commenced this action to extinguish any alleged right that defendants may claim over plaintiffs property by virtue of this use. Defendants answered and asserted, as an affirmative defense and counterclaim, that they have obtained a prescriptive easement over plaintiff’s property. Plaintiff moved, and defendants cross-moved, for summary judgment. Supreme Court denied both motions and plaintiff appeals. We agree with Supreme Court’s conclusion that material issues of fact remain in dispute and, therefore, affirm. Plaintiff asserts that defendants’ admitted knowledge of plaintiffs title ownership of the driveway negates the adverse or hostile element required to establish a prescriptive easement (see Aubuchon Realty Co. v Cohen, 294 AD2d 738, 739 [2002]). We disagree. “ ‘[I]t is the visible and adverse possession, with an intention to possess, that constitutes its adverse character, and not the remote views or belief of the possessor’ ” (Birkholz v Wells, 272 AD2d 665, 666 [2000], quoting French v Pearce, 8 Conn 439, 443 [1831]; see Fatone v Vona, 287 AD2d 854, 856-857 [2001]). Proof of permissive use, on the other hand, “will negate the adverse or hostile element of the test and defeat the creation of an easement by prescription” (Beretz v Diehl, 302 AD2d 808, 809-810 [2003]). In plaintiffs evidentiary submissions, she asserts that she gave defendants permission to use the driveway in 1977, with the understanding that permission could be revoked at any time. Defendants’ papers claim use of the driveway without plaintiffs permission since 1985, raising a material question of fact with respect to whether plaintiff gave permission to defendants to use the driveway and, if so, when permission ceased. To the extent that plaintiff also asserts that her motion should have been granted because defendants’ use of the property was not exclusive—citing her own use of the driveway and that of emergency vehicles—we note that exclusivity is not necessary to establish an easement by prescription (see Gorman v Hess, 301 AD2d 683, 685 [2003]; Aubuchon Realty Co. v Cohen, supra at 739). Crew III, J.P, Carpinello, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs. Defendants transferred the property to Bruce Greik by deed dated January 25, 2001. Greik is on notice of this litigation, but has not been substituted or joined as a party. Nevertheless, because the action may proceed against the original defendants even after the transfer of their interest (see CPLR 1018), we will resolve the instant appeal.
Carpinello, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Monserrate, J.), entered July 29, 2002, in Broome County, which granted defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. At issue on this appeal is the propriety of Supreme Court’s grant of summary judgment to defendant dismissing a complaint which alleged that plaintiff Jordan Adams (hereinafter plaintiff) suffered a serious injury (Insurance Law § 5102 [d]) in an August 15, 1998 auto accident. Finding no error in Supreme Court’s determination that plaintiff failed to establish such an injury as a matter of law, we affirm. The most serious of plaintiffs alleged injuries was continuing pain and stiffness in his left knee, and it is there that we concentrate our review. In support of his motion for summary judgment, defendant proffered the affirmation of an orthopedic surgeon who examined plaintiff and reviewed his medical records. He noted that both a postaccident X ray and an MRI of plaintiffs knee were unremarkable and that an arthroscopy of the knee revealed “minor torn fibers” and degenerative changes inconsistent with the trauma of a motor vehicle accident. He concluded that plaintiff failed to sustain a serious injury under any of the statutory categories and, thus, the burden shifted to plaintiffs to come forward with competent medical evidence based on objective findings to establish such an injury (see Markel v Scavo, 292 AD2d 757, 758 [2002]; Tankersley v Szesnat, 235 AD2d 1010, 1011-1013 [1997]). Significantly, the record contains a September 13, 1999 health questionnaire completed by plaintiff in connection with his application to become a police officer. There he indicates that he had no painful or stiff joints, no severe pains in the legs and no serious bodily disability. Also at that time, he passed a civil service physical exam to become a police officer and thereafter successfully completed six months of police academy, which included daily physical workouts. In opposition to the motion, plaintiff’s treating physician opined that plaintiff suffered a permanent consequential limitation of use of his left knee that physically limited his daily activities as a police officer. Notably absent from his affirmation, however, is any explanation for his own postarthroscopy note that, as of December 2000, plaintiffs “symptoms ha[d] significantly decreased.” Plaintiff received no further treatment from this physician for almost 10 months until September 2001 when, after filing this action, he returned complaining of pain, stiffness and clicking. On that date, however, the physical examination of plaintiffs knee was negative and plaintiff was able to fully extend and flex without pain, instability or tenderness. Plaintiffs physician does not discuss these findings, which are inconsistent with his ultimate conclusion. Even if we were to credit plaintiffs subjective complaints of pain and stiffness, it is now well established that mild limitations of use fail to qualify under the statute (see Murphy v Arrington, 295 AD2d 865, 866-867 [2002] [and cases cited therein]). Moreover, the affirmation of plaintiffs physician fails to provide the requisite quantitative assessment of limitation of use or a qualitative comparison of the purported limitations to normal function (see Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345, 350 [2002]). Under these circumstances, the order of Supreme Court dismissing the complaint was entirely appropriate. That portion of the appeal which addresses the denial of plaintiffs’ cross motion for summary judgment on liability is academic. Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Peters and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, with costs.
Kane, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed August 26, 2002, which assessed a penalty for late payment of a workers’ compensation award. Pursuant to Workers’ Compensation Law § 32, claimant, the employer and the employer’s workers’ compensation carrier negotiated a proposed settlement agreement whereby claimant, in exchange for $54,000, agreed to waive all future rights to workers’ compensation benefits in connection with a back injury he sustained in the course of his employment. Following formal approval of the settlement on December 20, 2001, the carrier mailed claimant a settlement check on December 26, 2001. However, the carrier inadvertently sent the check to an incorrect mailing address, causing the check to be returned on or about January 3, 2002. On January 7, 2002, the carrier sent claimant a second check, this time to the correct mailing address, which claimant received on January 8, 2002. Based on the carrier’s failure to pay the settlement award in a timely fashion, claimant requested that penalties be assessed. Following a hearing, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge granted claimant’s request and imposed a penalty of $10,800—or 20% of claimant’s $54,000 settlement award—as required by Workers’ Compensation Law § 25 (3) (f). The Workers’ Compensation Board affirmed and the employer and carrier (hereinafter collectively referred to as the carrier) appeal. The penalty provisions of Workers’ Compensation Law § 25 (3) (f) “are self-executing, and the penalty is mandatory and automatic if the award is not timely paid” (Matter of Keser v New York State Elmira Psychiatric Ctr., 92 NY2d 100, 106 [1998]; see Matter of Voorhees v Wal-Mart, 305 AD2d 893, 893 [2003]). Public policy considerations necessitate such a liberal construction since “ ‘the uniform assessment of penalties in all cases of late payment will ultimately benefit employees by deterring carriers from delaying award payments’ ” (Matter of Voorhees v Wal-Mart, supra at 894 [emphasis in original], quoting Matter of Keser v New York State Elmira Psychiatric Ctr., supra at 105). Here, the undisputed facts demonstrate that the carrier did not send claimant’s settlement award to the correct mailing address until 18 days after the settlement approval was filed, well beyond the 10 days permitted under Workers’ Compensation Law § 25 (3) (f). Notably, this delay was wholly attributable to the carrier since claimant’s correct address was set forth in a November 2001 notice of hearing and the notice of approval of the settlement agreement. In fact, the carrier itself mailed claimant’s weekly compensation payments to the correct address, listed the correct address on a C-8 notice and entered the correct address in one of its databases. Under these circumstances, we find no reason to disturb the Board’s penalty assessment. Nor are we persuaded by the carrier’s contention that the Board erred in failing to adhere to prior precedent or to explain a departure therefrom. In the case relied upon by the carrier, Matter of Krug’s Glazing Servs. (1998 WL 707503 [WCB No. 8951 2610, Sept. 16, 1998]), the Board declined to assess a penalty against a carrier since, although the claimant’s award had been sent to an incorrect address, the claimant had submitted that incorrect address to the employer and carrier. Here, however, the carrier mailed the settlement award incorrectly despite the fact that claimant furnished an accurate address to all interested parties. Accordingly, given the factual dissimilarity between this case and the case cited by the carrier, we reject the carrier’s contention that the Board’s decision must be reversed based on its failure to follow precedent or explain a departure therefrom (see Matter of Johnson v Onondaga Heating & A.C., 301 AD2d 903, 905-906 [2003]; Matter of De La Concha v Fordham Univ., 292 AD2d 662, 664 [2002]). Spain and Rose, JJ., concur.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed December 6, 2002, which ruled that claimant was ineligible to receive unemployment insurance benefits because he was not totally unemployed. Substantial evidence supports the decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board that claimant’s activities on behalf of a friend’s business—which consisted of taking pictures of items, listing them with an Internet auction company, monitoring their status, collecting payments and shipping the item to the buyer—rendered claimant not totally unemployed (see Matter of Kingsley-Agurkis [Commissioner of Labor], 273 AD2d 597, 598 [2000]; Matter of Vargas [Commissioner of Labor], 260 AD2d 790, 791 [1999]). Although claimant asserts that the activities were done as a favor for a friend, it is within the purview of the Board to determine if such activities constitute employment (see Matter of Vargas [Commissioner of Labor], supra at 791). Furthermore, inasmuch as claimant failed to abide by the directives in the unemployment insurance information handbook that advised that all work performed for family, friends or an employer must be reported when certifying for benefits regardless of the amount of time or lack of remuneration, we find no reason to disturb the Board’s assessment of a recoverable overpayment of benefits (see Matter of O’Brien [Commissioner of Labor], 288 AD2d 580, 580 [2001], lv denied 98 NY2d 608 [2002]; Matter of Kingsley-Agurkis [Commissioner of Labor], supra at 598). Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Rose, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Saratoga County) to review a determination of the Commissioner of Correctional Services which found petitioner guilty of violating certain prison disciplinary rules. Petitioner commenced this proceeding challenging a determination finding him guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rules that prohibit possession of a weapon and contraband. As a preliminary matter, respondent concedes, and our review of the record confirms, that so much of the determination finding him guilty of the charge of possession of contraband is not supported by substantial evidence. The determination is therefore modified by annulling the finding of guilt as to that charge and the Commissioner of Correctional Services is directed to expunge the charge from petitioner’s institutional record. It is not necessary to remit this matter for a redetermination of the penalty imposed, however, inasmuch as there was no recommended loss of good time and petitioner served the penalty (see Matter of Wright v Goord, 290 AD2d 779, 779-780 [2002], appeal dismissed 98 NY2d 648 [2002]; Matter of Baez v Goord, 261 AD2d 741, 742 [1999]). Turning to the remaining charge, the misbehavior report noting that a chopstick sharpened to a point was found in petitioner’s cell and the testimony at the hearing—including petitioner’s admission that he owned the chopstick—provide substantial evidence to support the determination finding petitioner guilty of possession of a weapon (see Matter of Folk v Goord, 307 AD2d 500 [2003]). We also reject petitioner’s assertion that he should have been provided with the assistance of a Chinese interpreter to meaningfully respond to the charges. An interpreter is only required when the inmate speaks no English (see 7 NYCRR 253.2, 254.2; Matter of Maldonado v Racette, 175 AD2d 963, 963 [1991]). A review of the record in this matter establishes that, as a whole, despite the absence of a translator, petitioner “was sufficiently fluent in English to understand and knowledgeably participate in the disciplinary hearing” (Matter of Santiago v Goord, 253 AD2d 970, 970 [1998]; see Matter of Moore v Selsky, 264 AD2d 923, 924 [1999]; Matter of Smith v Goord, 255 AD2d 1007, 1007 [1998]). Petitioner’s remaining contentions have been reviewed and found to be without merit. Cardona, PJ., Mercure, Spain, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is modified, without costs, by annulling so much thereof as found petitioner guilty of the charge of possession of contraband; petition granted to that extent and the Commissioner of Correctional Services is directed to expunge all references thereto from petitioner’s institutional record; and, as so modified, confirmed.
Spain, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed September 17, 2002, which ruled that claimant sustained a compensable injury and awarded workers’ compensation disability benefits. Claimant worked for the employer as a laborer for over 30 years. He stopped working in December 1997, having been incapacitated, at least in part, by a back injury which he attributed to the bending and heavy lifting required by his employment. In the decision under review, the Workers’ Compensation Board affirmed the determination of a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge, finding that claimant had sustained a moderate, permanent partial disability that was 50% attributable to his employment and awarding workers’ compensation disability benefits. The employer and its workers’ compensation carrier appeal, contending that the Board’s determination is not supported by substantial evidence. We disagree. Based upon his physical examination of claimant and a review of his medical history, including the results of an MRI, claimant’s physician testified that he suffered from degenerative disk disease and disk bulging. He stated that claimant’s lumbar spine had lost approximately 50% of its mobility in its “forward flex, extension, rotation and lateral bending.” The doctor concluded that claimant’s employment, which required him to perform repetitive bending and heavy lifting, had contributed “substantially to his present condition.” Even taking into account claimant’s unrelated foot maladies, which had required repeated surgery, his physician opined that claimant’s employment was a 50% contributing factor to his disability. Although the physician who examined claimant for the carrier did not concur that his back condition was causally related to his employment, it is well settled that it lies within the Board’s discretionary power to resolve conflicting medical evidence on the issue of causation (see Matter of Ritton v AT&T— New York, 298 AD2d 821, 822 [2002]; Matter of Hughes v Indian Val. Indus., 290 AD2d 871, 872 [2002]). As substantial evidence in the form of the testimony given by claimant’s physician supports the Board’s decision, it will not be disturbed (see Matter of Pulcastro v N & S Supply Co., 270 AD2d 737, 738-739 [2000]). Mercure, J.P., Peters, Carpinello and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Carpinello, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Teresi, J.), entered July 29, 2003 in Albany County, which granted plaintiffs motion for certain pendente lite relief. Plaintiff and defendant were married in 1985 and have three children, a son (born in 1986) and twin daughters (born in 1990). In 2003, plaintiff commenced this divorce action, alleging that defendant’s excessive alcohol consumption, and consequent verbal abuse of plaintiff and the children, constituted cruel and unusual treatment. Plaintiff subsequently moved for pendente lite relief, including exclusive use and possession of the marital residence, physical custody of the children and child support, claiming that she feared that defendant’s verbal abuse would escalate to physical violence against her and the children. Supreme Court, without a hearing, awarded plaintiff exclusive possession of the marital residence and ordered defendant to vacate the residence within 10 days. Supreme Court also awarded the parties joint legal custody of the children, with primary physical custody of the son to defendant and that of the daughters to plaintiff, and awarded plaintiff temporary child support. Supreme Court’s order was stayed by this Court pending the outcome of this appeal by defendant. While courts are statutorily authorized to award exclusive possession and use of the marital residence to one party during the pendency of a matrimonial action (see Domestic Relations Law § 234), such interim relief generally should not be awarded absent a hearing unless there is a showing that exclusive possession “is necessary for the protection of the safety of persons and property” (Baranyk v Baranyk, 73 AD2d 1004, 1005 [1980]; see Tessitore v Tessitore, 140 AD2d 786, 786 [1988]; Vallet v Vallet, 86 AD2d 741 [1982]). However, a hearing is not necessarily required where one party has established alternative living arrangements and there is a history of violence or domestic strife (see Preston v Preston, 147 AD2d 464, 465 [1989]; see also Delli Venneri v Delli Venneri, 120 AD2d 238, 240-241 [1986]). Such a showing is lacking here. Indeed, plaintiff concedes that defendant has never been violent toward her or the children, and defendant denies plaintiff’s uncorroborated allegations that he has verbally abused or threatened to hurt any family members. Under these circumstances, Supreme Court should have held a hearing before awarding plaintiff exclusive use of the marital home, particularly since its further award of physical custody of the son to defendant meant that the son would be displaced as well (see Tessitore v Tessitore, supra at 786-787; Freihofer v Freihofer, 91 AD2d 815 [1982], appeal dismissed 58 NY2d 971 [1983]; cf. Twaite v Twaite, 235 AD2d 616, 618 [1997]; Capolino v Capolino, 174 AD2d 825, 826 [1991]). Turning to Supreme Court’s interim child support award, defendant maintains that such an award is unnecessary while both parties continue to reside in the marital residence. The record, however, reveals that while defendant has borne all of the carrying charges for the residence, plaintiff has been paying all of the children’s living expenses. Consistent with its decision to award plaintiff exclusive use of the marital residence, Supreme Court apportioned the household expenses among the parties and awarded plaintiff temporary child support. Although Supreme Court’s calculation of the parties’ child support obligations, which was based upon a three-child household, did not properly reflect its split custody award (see Riseley v Riseley, 208 AD2d 132, 135 [1995]), we find that this award, together with the apportionment of household expenses, is appropriate while the parties and their children continue to reside under one roof (see George v George, 192 AD2d 693, 693 [1993]; see also Krantz v Krantz, 175 AD2d 863, 864 [1991]; cf. Hite v Hite, 89 AD2d 577 [1982]). In light of our decision, defendant’s remaining contentions are academic. Crew III, J.P., Spain, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law and the facts, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as awarded plaintiff exclusive use and possession of the marital residence; matter remitted to the Supreme Court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision; and, as so modified, affirmed. Because it appears that Supreme Court ordered and relied on a “report” from the Law Guardian, we take this opportunity to emphasize that a law guardian is the attorney for the children (see Matter of Carballeira v Shumway, 273 AD2d 753, 754-755 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 764 [2000]) and not an investigative arm of the court. While law guardians, as advocates, may make their positions known to the court orally or in writing (by way of, among other methods, briefs or summations), presenting reports containing facts which are not part of the record or making submissions directly to the court ex parte are inappropriate practices (see Matter of Rueckert v Reilly, 282 AD2d 608, 609 [2001]; Reed v Reed, 189 Misc 2d 734, 737 [2001]; New York State Bar Assn. Committee on Children and the Law, Law Guardian Representation Standards, vol. II, standard B-6, at 30-31 [Nov. 1999]; see also Molier v Molier, 46 NY2d 718 [1978], modfg 53 AD2d 996 [1976]; Family Ct Act §§ 241, 242). Consequently, courts should not direct law guardians to make such reports.
Motion for clarification. Upon the papers filed in support of the motion and the papers filed in opposition thereto, it is ordered that the motion is granted, without costs, to the extent that the memorandum and order dated and entered January 16, 2003 (301 AD2d 835) is amended as follows: the last sentence of the decision, which begins “Accordingly, Supreme Court erred . . .,” is omitted and the following substituted in its place: “Accordingly, Supreme Court erred in partially denying plaintiffs cross motion and it is determined that the express right-of-way in the 1956 deed was not extinguished. While plaintiff additionally sought, inter alia, injunctive relief in the complaint, the record is insufficient to rule on the remainder of her claims, including that part of her cross motion seeking dismissal of defendant’s second counterclaim.” The decretal paragraph of this Court’s memorandum and order is amended to read as follows: “Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, with costs to plaintiff, by reversing so much thereof as granted defendant’s motion and denied plaintiffs cross motion; motion denied, cross motion partially granted to the extent of dismissing defendant’s first counterclaim and determining that the express easement granted in the 1956 deed was not extinguished; and, as so modified, affirmed.” Cardona, EJ., Mercure, Peters, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur.
Per Curiam. Respondent was admitted to practice by this Court in 1980 and maintains an office for the practice of law in the Town of Clifton Park, Saratoga County. We confirm a Referee’s report which sustained charges of professional misconduct in violation of the attorney disciplinary rules (see Code of Professional Responsibility DR 1-102 [a] [4], [5], [7] [22 NYCRR 1200.3 (a) (4), (5), (7)]). We have heard respondent in mitigation. During the course of applying to refinance a mortgage, respondent submitted, on two different occasions, false and fraudulent satisfactions of judgment which he had prepared and secured to make it appear that he had paid a default judgment taken against him by a creditor. He filed the second fraudulent document in the Albany County Clerk’s office. In response to a motion by the creditor to vacate the filed document, respondent entered into a stipulation to pay the judgment. He then tendered a check in payment which was returned for insufficient funds. At the time that he issued the check, he knew that he had insufficient funds in the account to cover it. The creditor then moved to vacate the first fraudulent satisfaction of judgment and for sanctions. Supreme Court granted the motion and found that respondent engaged in frivolous conduct warranting sanctions (see 22 NYCRR part 130). Supreme Court scheduled a hearing as to the amount of the sanctions. Respondent then paid the default judgment and it appears the creditor withdrew the motion for sanctions. In 1997, we suspended respondent from practice for two years and condemned his conversion of substantial funds belonging to a client, albeit briefly, as a failure to abide by the high standards expected of a member of the legal profession. However, given the mitigating circumstances, we stayed the suspension upon the condition that respondent submit semiannual CPA reports confirming that he was maintaining his escrow accounts and preserving clients funds properly (Matter of Hayes, 238 AD2d 668 [1997]). By further decision in 1999, we granted respondent’s motion to terminate the stayed suspension (Matter of Hayes, 261 AD2d 815 [1999]). Now, in view of respondent’s very serious professional misconduct, which is aggravated by his prior disciplinary record, we conclude that respondent should be disbarred. Mercure, J.P., Crew III, Mugglin, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that petitioner’s motion to confirm the Referee’s report is granted; and it is further ordered that respondent is found guilty of the professional misconduct charged and specified in the petition; and it is further ordered that respondent is disbarred, and his name is stricken from the roll of attorneys and counselors-at-law of the State of New York, effective immediately; and it is further ordered that respondent is commanded to desist and refrain from the practice of law in any form, either as principal or as agent, clerk or employee of another; he is forbidden to appear as an attorney or counselor-at-law before any court, judge, justice, board, commission or other public authority; or to give any opinion as to the law or its application, or any advice in relation thereto; and it is further ordered that respondent shall comply with the provisions of this Court’s rules regulating the conduct of disbarred attorneys (see 22 NYCRR 806.9).
Per Curiam. Respondent was admitted to practice by this Court in March 1997. He lives and works in England. Having granted petitioner’s motion for an order declaring that the petition of charges and respondent’s answer raised no factual issues and having considered respondent’s papers in mitigation, we now find respondent guilty of serious professional misconduct as charged. Respondent engaged in illegal conduct in violation of the attorney discipline rules by making misrepresentations to British government agencies to obtain unemployment and housing benefits (see Code of Professional Responsibility DR 1-102 [a] [3]-[5], [7] [22 NYCRR 1200.3 (a) (3)-(5), (7)]). He was convicted in 1997 of nine offenses relating to the conduct and sentenced to one-year concurrent terms of incarceration. Respondent made a materially false statement or deliberately failed to disclose information on his pending application for admission as an attorney in New York by failing to disclose, as required, the criminal charges described above which were then pending against him (see DR 1-101 [a] [22 NYCRR 1200.2 (a)]). We reiterate that candor and the voluntary revelation of negative information by an applicant for admission are the cornerstones upon which is built the character and fitness investigation (see Matter of Mendoza, 167 AD2d 658 [1990]). Respondent has also failed to comply with the attorney registration requirements for at least two biennial registration periods (see Judiciary Law § 468-a; 22 NYCRR part 118; DR 1-102 [a] [5] [22 NYCRR 1200.3 (a) (5)]). Under the circumstances presented, we conclude that respondent should be disbarred. Mercure, J.P, Crew III, Peters, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that respondent is found guilty of the professional misconduct charged and specified in the petition; and it is further ordered that respondent is disbarred, and his name is stricken from the roll of attorneys and counselors-at-law of the State of New York, effective immediately; and it is further ordered that respondent is commanded to desist and refrain from the practice of law in any form, either as principal or as agent, clerk or employee of another; he is forbidden to appear as an attorney or counselor-at-law before any court, judge, justice, board, commission or other public authority; or to give any opinion as to the law or its application, or any advice in relation thereto; and it is further ordered that respondent shall comply with the provisions of this Court’s rule regulating the conduct of disbarred attorneys (see 22 NYCRR 806.9).
Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Canfield, J.), entered March 12, 2003 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review a determination of the Board of Parole denying petitioner’s request for parole release. Petitioner is currently incarcerated following his 1991 conviction of the crimes of robbery in the first degree (two counts), robbery in the second degree (two counts), assault in the second degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree (People v Rosario [Gonzalez], 188 AD2d 422 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 886, 892 [1993]). The judgment of conviction arose out of an incident wherein petitioner and three accomplices robbed a clothing store, holding the 13 individuals present therein as hostages. Petitioner threatened some of the hostages with a loaded handgun as he robbed them of jewelry. He later pointed the weapon at one of the arresting police officers. Petitioner’s appearance before the Board of Parole in October 2001 resulted in the denial of his application, based in particular upon the violent nature of his crimes. He thereafter commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding, the dismissal of which by Supreme Court prompted this appeal. Determinations rendered by the Board are not subject to judicial review so long as they comport with the applicable statutory requirements (see Executive Law § 259-i [5]; see also Matter of Bramble v New York State Bd. of Parole, 307 AD2d 463 [2003]). The record herein discloses that the Board considered the relevant factors, as required by Executive Law § 259-i (5). Having made this showing, judicial intervention is only warranted in matters where the Board’s decision exhibits “irrationality bordering on impropriety” (Matter of Silmon v Travis, 95 NY2d 470, 476 [2000]). The Board’s decision denying petitioner’s request for parole release is clearly rational under the circumstances presented here; hence, it will not be disturbed. Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Spain, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Carpinello, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Clinton County (Ryan, J.), rendered September 8, 1999, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crimes of murder in the second degree, kidnapping in the first degree and robbery in the first degree. While in custody on unrelated charges, defendant gave oral and written statements confessing to the 1993 kidnapping, robbery and murder of Leo Gebo in the Town of Altona, Clinton County. The People used this evidence to obtain an indictment, but County Court granted defendant’s motion to suppress the statements. On the People’s appeal {see CPL 450.20 [8]; 450.50), this Court affirmed the suppression of the statements as a product of custodial interrogation in violation of defendant’s right to counsel (People v Burdo, 224 AD2d 115 [1996], affd 91 NY2d 146 [1997]). On remand, County Court granted defendant’s motion, pursuant to CPL 450.50 (2), to dismiss the indictment. In 1998, the People presented newly obtained evidence to a second, grand jury, which returned a new indictment charging defendant with the crimes of murder in the second degree (three counts), robbery in the first degree (two counts), kidnapping in the first degree and criminal possession of a weapon. After extensive plea negotiations involving defendant and his uncle, who was separately charged as a participant in the crime, an agreement was reached whereby defendant would plead guilty to three counts of the indictment in exchange for a sentencing recommendation and an agreement permitting his uncle to plead guilty to reduced charges. Defendant thereafter pleaded guilty to murder in the second degree, robbery in the first degree and kidnapping in the first degree and waived his right to appeal. His motion to withdraw his guilty plea was denied without a hearing, and he was sentenced, as recommended, to concurrent prison terms aggregating 20 years to life to run concurrently with the sentence he was serving on the prior unrelated charges. On appeal, defendant contends that he was under duress when he entered his guilty plea because his grandmother was present during the plea negotiations and pressured him to accept a deal that benefitted his uncle. We are unpersuaded. The record reflects that County Court conducted a thorough plea colloquy, wherein it ascertained that defendant fully understood the nature and consequences of his guilty plea. The court established that defendant was thinking clearly, was satisfied with his counsel’s representation, had not been coerced or threatened and was making his plea freely and voluntarily. Defendant proceeded to detail his commission of these crimes, and at no time professed his innocence. Under these circumstances, we conclude that defendant’s guilty plea was knowing, voluntary and intelligent (see People v Angus, 303 AD2d 829, 829-830 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 536 [2003]; People v McDonnell, 302 AD2d 619, 619-620 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 540 [2003]), and we see no abuse of discretion in County Court’s denial of his motion to withdraw the plea (see People v Kagonyera, 304 AD2d 984, 985 [2003]; People v Davis, 250 AD2d 939, 940 [1998]). Defendant contends that the second indictment was defective due to the People’s failure to meet the CPL 210.20 (6) timeline requirements for seeking a new indictment, a claim that implicates the jurisdictional basis for the indictment and, thus, survives a guilty plea (see People v Harper, 243 AD2d 581, 581 [1997]). However, the CPL 210.20 (6) requirements do not apply in this case because the first indictment was dismissed pursuant to defendant’s CPL 450.50 motion. In such cases, the People are permitted to seek a new indictment only in exceptional circumstances, such as here where new evidence is discovered that was unavailable at the time of the People’s appeal from the original indictment (see Matter of Forte v Supreme Ct., 48 NY2d 179, 189 [1979]; Matter of Yarter v Winn, 220 AD2d 1, 4 [1996], Iv granted 88 NY2d 809 [1996], appeal dismissed 89 NY2d 862 [1996]). The second indictment was based upon such newly discovered evidence and, thus, properly obtained. Defendant’s remaining claims, which challenge the evidence before the grand jury on the second indictment, were waived as a consequence of his guilty plea (see People v Hansen, 95 NY2d 227, 233 [2000]; People v Robertson, 279 AD2d 711, 712 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 805 [2001]) and, in any event, are unavailing. Cardona, EJ., Peters, Spain and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Ulster County (Bruhn, J.), rendered April 5, 2001, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crimes of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fourth degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree (three counts). Defendant pleaded guilty to criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fourth degree and three counts of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree in full satisfaction of two indictments and various other pending charges. He was sentenced, in accordance with the plea agreement, to prison terms of 4 to 12 years on the controlled substance charge, three years on one of the weapons charges and 1 to 3 years on the other weapons charges, all to run concurrently. Defense counsel seeks to be relieved of her assignment as counsel for defendant on the ground that there are no nonfrivolous issues to be raised on appeal. Our review of the record and defendant’s pro se brief, however, reveals the existence of issues that are “ ‘arguable on their merits (and therefore not frivolous)’ ” (People v Stokes, 95 NY2d 633, 636 [2001], quoting Anders v California, 386 US 738, 744 [1967]), including whether County Court erred in denying defendant’s suppression motion. Accordingly, and without expressing any opinion as to the merits of the issues raised, counsel’s application is granted. New counsel must be assigned, however, to address any issues that the record may disclose (see People v Shaw, 301 AD2d 751, 751 [2003]; People v Van Sickle, 293 AD2d 880, 881 [2002]). Mercure, J.P., Carpinello, Mugglin, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is withheld, application to be relieved of assignment granted and new counsel to be assigned.
Mercure, J.E Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Teresi, J.), rendered October 10, 2001 in Albany County, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of assault in the first degree, assault in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree and promoting prison contraband in the first degree. In January 2001, defendant was an inmate at the Albany County Correctional Facility. During an altercation involving several inmates, defendant allegedly cut the victim’s arm with a razor blade. Correction officers arriving at the scene saw defendant with his hands in the back of his pants. The facility’s body orifice security system subsequently detected that defendant had a piece of metal in the area of his buttocks and a strip search revealed grease on his underwear. After obtaining a search warrant, police officers transported defendant to the hospital, where X rays were taken revealing that defendant had a razor blade concealed in his rectum. Defendant eventually removed the razor blade and turned it over to authorities. Thereafter, a grand jury indicted defendant, charging him with the crimes of assault in the first and second degrees, criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, and promoting prison contraband in the first degree. Following a jury trial, defendant was convicted of all charges. He was sentenced to a prison term of 20 years for the first degree assault conviction and lesser concurrent terms on the remaining convictions. Defendant appeals and we now affirm. Initially, defendant argues that his convictions must be reversed because the Feople violated People v Rosario (9 NY2d 286 [1961], cert denied 368 US 866 [1961]) by failing to disclose a written statement given by a witness. Specifically, defendant asserts that the People failed to supply him with a “miscellaneous report” compiled by a correction officer who observed defendant in his holding cell immediately following the incident. The correction officer testified that the report contained a narrative of his involvement in the incident and that he submitted the report to Department of Correctional Services investigators. The People informed Supreme Court that they were not in possession of the report and, indeed, there is no evidence that the People ever had possession and control of the miscellaneous report. Further, because the Department of Correctional Services was acting as an administrative agency in this matter, the People had no duty to attempt to locate and gain possession of the report for the purpose of turning it over to defendant (see People v Howard, 87 NY2d 940, 941 [1996]; People v Livingston, 262 AD2d 786, 790 [1999], lv denied 94 NY2d 881 [2000]; see also People v Kelly, 88 NY2d 248, 251-252 [1996]). Therefore, we conclude that no Rosario violation occurred here. In any event, even assuming that the People failed to disclose Rosario material, we note that such failure is now subject to harmless error analysis (see CPL 240.75; People v Felix-Torres, 286 AD2d 784, 784 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 681 [2001]). Inasmuch as defendant has not demonstrated prejudice, his argument must fail. We also reject defendant’s contention that Supreme Court erred in denying his request for substitute counsel. “[T]he constitutional right to defend by counsel of one’s own choosing does not bestow upon a criminal defendant the absolute right to demand that his trial be delayed while he selects another attorney to represent him at trial” (People v Arroyave, 49 NY2d 264, 271 [1980]). Public policy considerations against delay weigh heavier when a motion to substitute counsel is made on the eve of trial (see id. at 271-272). In this case, defendant, who was assigned counsel from the Albany County Public Defender’s office, requested a continuance on the eve of trial to hire an attorney of his own choosing. Defendant indicated that he was unable to maintain meaningful contact with assigned counsel due to communication restrictions imposed by officials at the federal prison in which he was incarcerated and that he received discovery later than expected. Notably, defendant did not explain his failure to make his request earlier or how substitute counsel would overcome the restrictions that hindered contact with his assigned counsel. Moreover, counsel informed Supreme Court that, other than his inability to locate a certain witness, he was ready to proceed to trial, and the People also stated that they were ready to proceed. Given the timing of the motion, the absence of exigent circumstances and defendant’s failure to articulate a compelling reason for substitution, Supreme Court’s denial of defendant’s request cannot be said to be an abuse of discretion (see People v Skaar, 225 AD2d 824, 825-826 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 854 [1996]; People v Stubbs, 197 AD2d 746, 747 [1993]; cf. People v Sides, 75 NY2d 822, 824-825 [1990]). We have considered defendant’s remaining arguments and conclude that they are either meritless or unpreserved for our review. Peters, Spain, Carpinello and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Chemung County (Buckley, J.), rendered February 4, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of aggravated sexual abuse in the first degree. In full satisfaction of a six-count indictment, defendant pleaded guilty to one count of aggravated sexual abuse in the first degree. Pursuant to the plea agreement, defendant was sentenced to a prison term of 10 years and a five-year period of postrelease supervision, and he was required to register as a sex offender. Although not part of the agreed-upon sentence, County Court further ordered defendant to pay restitution in the amount of $10,007.06 and a mandatory surcharge of $210. Defendant’s sole argument on this appeal is that County Court erred in imposing restitution and the mandatory surcharge without first affording him an opportunity to withdraw his plea. While we hold that, given the mandatory nature of the surcharge, a defendant need not be advised, prior to the entry of his or her plea, that it is part of the sentence (see People v Prihett, 279 AD2d 335 [2001]), we have also held that “[w]here, as here, a plea agreement does not include mention of restitution, a defendant must be given the opportunity to either withdraw his [or her] plea or accept the greater sentence of restitution” (People v Toms, 293 AD2d 768, 769 [2002]; see People v Goss, 286 AD2d 180, 183 [2001]; People v Nichols, 276 AD2d 832 [2000]). The record makes clear, and the People concede, that County Court did not advise defendant of his rights in this regard. Accordingly, the matter must be remitted to County Court to impose the sentence promised or afford defendant the opportunity to withdraw his plea (see People v Nichols, supra at 832). Cardona, EJ., Crew III, Peters and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, by vacating the sentence imposed; matter remitted to the County Court of Chemung County for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision; and, as so modified, affirmed.
Kane, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Teresi, J.), rendered April 25, 2002 in Rensselaer County, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crimes of sexual abuse in the first degree and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree. Defendant pleaded guilty to sexual abuse in the first degree and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree in full satisfaction of a seven-count indictment. As part of the plea agreement, defendant waived his right to appeal. He was thereafter sentenced, in accordance with the plea agreement, to a two-year prison term on the sexual abuse conviction, to be followed by a three-year period of postrelease supervision, and a concurrent one-year jail term on the criminal possession conviction. Defendant now appeals. Initially, we note that defendant’s assertions of judicial bias, ineffectiveness of counsel and excessive sentence are encompassed by his voluntary waiver of the right to appeal (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733, 737 [1998]; People v Bier, 307 AD2d 649, 650 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 618 [2003]; People v De Berardinis, 304 AD2d 914, 915-916 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 580 [2003]; People v Anderson, 304 AD2d 975, 976 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 578 [2003]). In addition, defendant is precluded from challenging the voluntariness of the plea by his failure to either move to withdraw the plea or to vacate the judgment of conviction (see People v Harris, 308 AD2d 659 [2003]; People v De Berardinis, supra at 915). In any event, were we to address any of these claims, we would find them all to be without merit. Notably, the judge who defendant asserts was biased and should have recused himself presided only over that portion of the proceedings relating to bail, not the plea or sentencing. The record discloses that defendant’s trial counsel provided meaningful representation and his failure to request recusal of the judge does not, under the circumstances presented, establish ineffectiveness. In addition, the transcript of the plea proceedings reveals that defendant entered a knowing, voluntary and intelligent plea after being advised of the consequences of entering a plea and communicating his understanding, as well as his satisfaction with counsel. Finally, considering the nature of the crimes and defendant’s criminal history, we perceive no extraordinary circumstances warranting a reduction of the sentence in the interest of justice (see People v Echandy, 306 AD2d 693, 694 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 620 [2003]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Mugglin and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Cardona, P J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Chemung County (Hayden, J.), rendered May 24, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of attempted course of sexual conduct against a child in the first degree. A four-count indictment charged defendant with various crimes related to alleged sexual encounters with an 11-year-old child between August 1996 and March 1997 in the City of Elmira, Chemung County. Thereafter, in satisfaction of all pending charges, defendant pleaded guilty to the crime of attempted course of sexual conduct against a child in the first degree {see Penal Law §§ 110.00, 130.75 [1] [a]). Pursuant to the terms of a plea agreement, defendant was to be sentenced to a prison term of five years. Furthermore, while the People recommended a 21/2-year postrelease supervision period, it was understood that County Court was not bound by that recommendation and could impose the maximum period of supervision. Subsequently, County Court sentenced defendant as a second felony offender to the promised five-year term and, additionally, imposed the maximum postrelease supervision period of five years. This appeal ensued. Initially, we note that, inasmuch as defendant did not move to withdraw the plea or vacate the judgment of conviction, he has not preserved his challenge to the voluntariness of the plea (see People v Hults, 308 AD2d 608, 609 [2003]; People v De Berardinis, 304 AD2d 914, 915 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 580 [2003]). In any event, were we to consider that claim, we would find it without merit. County Court conducted a thorough inquiry as to whether defendant understood the plea agreement and the consequences thereof. He was advised of the rights he was forfeiting by pleading guilty. Defendant affirmatively stated that his plea was voluntary and had sufficient time to consult with his attorney. County Court also engaged defendant in a thorough, explicit recitation of the underlying facts of the crime, and defendant admitted the charged conduct. Therefore, were the matter properly before us, we would find that defendant’s plea was knowing, voluntary and intelligent (see People v Sampson, 301 AD2d 677, 677 [2003]). Next, defendant’s argument that he was denied the effective assistance of counsel is similarly unpreserved for appellate review (see People v Van Gorden, 307 AD2d 547 [2003]; People v Hanna, 303 AD2d 838, 839 [2003]). Nevertheless, were we to address the argument, we would find it unavailing. Notably, the majority of defendant’s allegations concern matters outside the record and would be more appropriately addressed in a CPL article 440 motion where the necessary facts could be developed (see People v Hemingway, 306 AD2d 689, 690 [2003]; People v Smith, 305 AD2d 853, 854 [2003]). In any event, in addition to the advantageous plea agreement, the record reveals, inter alia, that counsel made pretrial motions, discovery requests and adequately advocated on defendant’s behalf throughout the proceedings (see People v De Berardinis, supra at 916; People v Hanna, supra at 839). Accordingly, defendant was not deprived of meaningful representation under all the circumstances. Finally, we are unpersuaded by defendant’s contention that his sentence was harsh and excessive. The sentence imposed was within statutory guidelines and there is no proof establishing an abuse of County Court’s discretion or extraordinary circumstances that would justify a modification of the sentence in the interest of justice (see People v Hults, supra). Crew III, Carpinello, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Spain, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Schenectady County (Hoye, J.), rendered March 26, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree. On November 9, 2000, an indictment was handed up charging defendant with various drug-related crimes based upon his sale of cocaine to a confidential informant working with undercover police officers on June 8, 2000 and June 22, 2000. After defendant was located in and discharged from a hospital drug treatment program, he was arraigned and entered a plea of not guilty. Thereafter, defense counsel made an omnibus motion seeking, among other things, to dismiss the indictment on speedy trial grounds. Following a hearing on this issue, County Court reserved decision and defendant thereafter pleaded guilty to criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree in full satisfaction of the indictment. As part of the plea agreement, defendant agreed to waive his right to appeal and to be sentenced to 2 to 4 years in prison, and the District Attorney consented to defendant’s participation in the Willard Drug Treatment Program. Before sentence was pronounced, however, defendant moved to withdraw his guilty plea. The court denied the motion and sentenced defendant, as an admitted second felony offender, in accordance with the plea agreement. Defendant now appeals. We turn first to defendant’s claim that County Court erred in denying his motion to withdraw his plea without a hearing. It is well settled that “[t]he question of whether to permit a defendant to withdraw a guilty plea rests within the sound discretion of the trial court . . . and[,] absent a showing of abuse, that court’s determination will not be disturbed” (People v Bonilla, 285 AD2d 746, 747 [2001]; see CPL 220.60 [3]; People v Alexander, 97 NY2d 482, 485 [2002]; People v Babcock, 304 AD2d 912, 912 [2003]). “[A] hearing is required only where the record presents a genuine quéstion of fact as to [the] voluntariness” of the plea (People v De Fabritis, 296 AD2d 664, 664 [2002]). “Generally, a guilty plea may not be withdrawn absent some evidence or claim of innocence, fraud or mistake in its inducement” (People v Davis, 250 AD2d 939, 940 [1998] [citations omitted]; see People v McDonnell, 302 AD2d 619, 620 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 540 [2003]). Here, the transcript of the plea proceedings reveals that County Court fully informed defendant of the ramifications of pleading guilty and the rights he was thereby waiving. Although he was taking medication for apparent back problems and was reportedly in some pain, he unequivocally stated that he understood the proceedings and the rights he was foregoing by entering a plea and that his physical condition did not impair his understanding. In addition, while the court sought to accommodate defendant by inviting him to sit during the proceedings, he declined. He admitted selling cocaine on June 8, 2000 as specified in count one of the indictment, and there is nothing in the record to substantiate his claim that his physical condition was an undue or coercive factor in the entry of his plea or that he was innocent of the charges. Consequently, we find no abuse of discretion in the denied of defendant’s motion without a hearing, which was fully supported by the court’s written decision. Defendant also asserts that he was denied the effective assistance of counsel because his attorney failed to focus on the statutory speedy trial violation, concentrating instead on the less meritorious constitutional claim. Given that defendant entered a voluntary guilty plea and accompanying waiver of the right to appeal, he is precluded from raising this statutory claim here (see People v O’Brien, 56 NY2d 1009, 1010 [1982]; People v Smith, 272 AD2d 679, 681 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 938 [2000]). Likewise, he is foreclosed from challenging the effectiveness of counsel on this basis since the ineffectiveness alleged does not impact upon the voluntariness of the plea (see People v Sayles, 292 AD2d 641, 643 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 681 [2002]; cf. People v Johnson, 288 AD2d 501, 502 [2001]). In any event, the record belies defendant’s contention as the omnibus motion and accompanying affirmation clearly allege a violation of CPL 30.30. While constitutional speedy trial claims survive a guilty plea and appeal waiver (see People v Smith, supra at 681), defendant does not raise this issue on appeal. Accordingly, we find no reason to disturb the judgment of conviction. Crew III, J.P., Mugglin, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Warren County (Austin, J.), rendered May 7, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of the crime of robbery in the second degree. As a result of a plea bargain that included the waiver of his right to appeal, defendant pleaded guilty to the crime of robbery in the second degree in satisfaction of a two-count indictment that arose from his participation as the driver of the getaway car during a robbery of a general store. Defendant was sentenced to an agreed-upon prison term of four years and three years of postrelease supervision. Defendant now appeals, contending that he was improperly denied youthful offender status and the sentence imposed was harsh and excessive. We affirm. By knowingly and intelligently waiving his right to appeal, defendant has forfeited his right to now argue that he should have been granted youthful offender status (see People v Paolucci, 307 AD2d 479 [2003]) or that his sentence was too severe (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733, 737 [1998]). Nevertheless, if the merits were addressed, we would find no abuse of discretion or extraordinary circumstances warranting a reduction of the sentence considering the violent nature of the crime and the clear indication in the record that the plea was not conditioned on defendant receiving youthful offender treatment (see People v Wade, 297 AD2d 877 [2002]; People v Lloyd, 249 AD2d 623 [1998]). Cardona, EJ., Crew III, Peters, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed.
Peters, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Sheridan, J.), rendered June 10, 2002 in Essex County, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of assault in the second degree (three counts) and obstructing governmental administration in the second degree. Defendant, a prisoner at the Adirondack Correctional Facility in Essex County, was charged with crimes arising out of an incident in which he allegedly assaulted three correction officers. After trial, he was convicted of all charges. Upon appeal, defendant was assigned counsel. In the appellate brief, counsel challenges the sufficiency of the evidence and the effective assistance of trial counsel. The brief then advises that although defendant sought to have counsel raise two additional issues on appeal, one concerning defendant’s right to testify before the grand jury and the other challenging the racial composition of the jury, “the two additional issues raised by . . . [defendant] are without merit.” Counsel then argues the lack of merit. While we can discern that appellate counsel did not find the appeal to be wholly frivolous, warranting the filing of an Anders brief (see Anders v California, 386 US 738 [1967]), his disparagement of those issues sought to be raised by defendant “affirmatively undermined arguments his client wished the court to review and, for all practical purposes, precluded his client from presenting them effectively in a pro se brief” (People v Vasquez, 70 NY2d 1, 4 [1987]). As the procedure required by the Court of Appeals in People v Vasquez (supra) was not followed, appellate counsel must be relieved and new counsel assigned. Mercure, J.E, Spain, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is withheld, counsel is relieved of assignment and new counsel to be assigned.
Lahtinen, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of Cortland County (Smith, J.), rendered August 9, 2002, which resentenced defendant following his conviction of the crime of attempted robbery in the second degree. Defendant’s appellate counsel seeks to be relieved of his assignment on the ground that there are no nonfrivolous issues that can be raised on appeal. Our review of the record, defense counsel’s brief and defendant’s pro se submissions reveals the existence of various potential issues of “arguable merit” (People v Cruwys, 113 AD2d 979, 980 [1985], lv denied 67 NY2d 650 [1986]; see People v Adams, 283 AD2d 671 [2001]), including the sufficiency of the plea allocution. Accordingly, counsel’s application to be relieved is granted and new counsel will be assigned to address any issues that the record may disclose (see People v Cruwys, supra). Crew III, J.P., Mugglin, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is withheld, application to be relieved of assignment granted and new counsel to be assigned.
Lahtinen, J. Appeal from a judgment of the County Court of St. Lawrence County (Nicandri, J.), rendered June 17, 2002, upon a verdict convicting defendant of the crimes of rape in the third degree and attempted rape in the first degree. Defendant allegedly engaged in sexual intercourse with a 16-year-old friend of his daughter. According to the victim’s trial testimony, she was sleeping near defendant’s daughter on the living room floor in defendant’s home when she awoke to find that her sweat pants and underwear had been removed and realized that defendant was on top of her and was penetrating her. The victim testified that she pretended to be asleep. She subsequently reported the incident to police and defendant was indicted for the crimes of rape in the third degree and rape in the first degree. Following a jury trial, he was found guilty of rape in the third degree and attempted rape in the first degree. Defendant was sentenced to prison terms of lVs to 4 years for rape in the third degree and 15 years for attempted rape in the first degree. The terms were concurrent with each other and concurrent with a previously imposed sentence on another conviction. Defendant appeals. Defendant argues that County Court committed reversible error when, following the close of proof, the court, sua sponte, constructively amended the indictment to allow the jury to consider not only the original time frame alleged in the indictment of on or about August 2000, but also to consider that the alleged crimes may have been committed in August 1999. CPL 200.70 (1) provides, in part, that “[a]t any time before or during trial, the court may, upon application of the people and with notice to the defendant and opportunity to be heard, order the amendment of an indictment with respect to defects, errors or variances from the proof relating to matters of form, time, place, names of persons and the like.” Two significant limitations on the court’s power to grant such an amendment are, first, that the amendment must not change the prosecution’s theory as reflected by the grand jury evidence and, second, the amendment must not tend to prejudice the defendant on the merits (see CPL 200.70 [1]; People v Perez, 83 NY2d 269, 274 [1994]; People v Grimes, 301 AD2d 953, 954 [2003], lv denied 99 NY2d 654 [2003]; Preiser, Practice Commentaries, McKinney’s Cons Laws of NY, Book 11A, CPL 200.70, at 517-518). Upon review of all the facts and circumstances revealed by the record, we find that the amendment created a real potential of prejudice to defendant on the merits requiring reversal of his judgment of conviction. Prior to opening statements, defense counsel stated on the record that, while reviewing the Rosario material, he observed references to the existence of notes and other information indicating that the victim had lodged a rape allegation against defendant in 1999, she was interviewed several times by police regarding that allegation, and then she recanted. Defense counsel urged that the notes from that investigation were Rosario material that should have been provided to him. The People conceded that the victim had filed a complaint against defendant with the Sheriff’s Department in August 1999 and the District Attorney stated that he had requested that investigative file from the Sheriff, but was informed that it could not be located. The District Attorney further stated that Undersheriff Kevin Wells, who had interviewed the victim in 1999, informed him that the August 1999 allegation involved inappropriate touching and had nothing to do with sexual intercourse. Based on these representations, County Court concluded that the investigative reports at issue were not Rosario material insofar as they did not relate to the charged crimes. County Court reiterated that the matter on trial did not relate to an incident which may have occurred in 1999 by stating that a 1999 incident “has nothing to do with this charge . . . [i]t is about this allegation, this offense, this date, this charge is what the People are required to turn over.” At the trial, the victim testified that the events underlying the charges against defendant occurred in August 2000. Cross-examination of some of the People’s witnesses cast potential doubt on whether the alleged incident could have occurred in August 2000. Moreover, defendant presented evidence through a series of witnesses that the victim did not visit and was not welcome in defendant’s home in August 2000. For example, defendant’s daughter testified that her friendship with the victim had ended in the summer of 1999 and that the victim never visited defendant’s home in the summer of 2000. After the proof was closed, County Court informed the attorneys that, in light of the evidence presented, the court was going to charge the jury, consistent with 1 CJI(NY) 8.01, as follows: “The indictment charges this Defendant allegedly committed the acts constituting crimes charged on or about August of 2000. Some of the testimony you have heard indicates the actual date may have been August of 1999. If you are satisfied the alleged criminal conduct did in fact occur on the earlier date, you may disregard the date set forth in the Indictment.” Defendant strenuously objected to the proposed charge. The court, however, included the instruction in its charge to the jury. Certainly, in some circumstances, the charge given by County Court would have been appropriate (see e.g. People v Grimes, 301 AD2d 953 [2003], supra; People v Pike, 254 AD2d 727, 728 [1998]; People v Green, 250 AD2d 143, 145-146 [1998], lv denied 93 NY2d 873 [1999]). Here, however, before the trial commenced, an issue was raised regarding events in August 1999 and the People had represented on the record that the August 1999 investigation involved an allegation of inappropriate touching and not intercourse. Moreover, there was potential Rosario material regarding the 1999 incident that was not pursued because it was viewed as a totally different incident. In light of the People’s representations regarding the August 1999 incident, County Court stated that the trial dealt only with August 2000 and not August 1999. Relying upon these representations and rulings, defendant’s strategy centered on attempting to prove that the alleged incident could not have occurred in August 2000. To permit the jury to consider that the incident may have occurred in August 1999, under these circumstances, prejudiced the defense. Defendant’s conviction must therefore be reversed. The remaining arguments are academic. Cardona, PJ., Crew III, Carpinello and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, and matter remitted to the County Court of St. Lawrence County for a new trial.
Lahtinen, J. Appeal from an order of the County Court of Cortland County (Ames, J.), entered December 9, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the indictment. In May 2001, defendant allegedly assaulted Kimberly Becker because Becker had cooperated with police in a drug investigation that included defendant’s brother, Mark Fezza. The investigation into a purported multicounty drug distribution network that implicated Fezza was being conducted by the Attorney General’s Organized Crime Task Force (hereinafter OCTF). In furtherance of this investigation, the Cortland County District Attorney appointed James Mindell, Assistant Deputy Attorney General for OCTF, to the position of Assistant District Attorney in January 2001. Additionally, pursuant to Executive Law § 70-a (7), the Cortland County District Attorney and the Governor granted OCTF authority to conduct criminal and civil proceedings related to the investigation. Following defendant’s assault upon Becker, Mindell appeared before a Cortland County grand jury and obtained an indictment charging her with the crimes of intimidating a witness in the second degree and assault in the third degree. Thereafter, defendant moved to dismiss the indictment arguing, among other things, that Mindell was not a person authorized to present the case against her to the grand jury (see CPL 210.35 [5]). County Court dismissed the indictment upon such ground and this appeal by the People ensued. The People argue that Mindell had jurisdictional authority to appear before the grand jury regarding defendant’s conduct both under Executive Law § 70-a (7) and also under Mindell’s separate appointment as an Assistant District Attorney for Cortland County. Turning first to Executive Law § 70-a (7), such statute was enacted to address the complex law enforcement problems presented by organized, multijurisdictional criminal activity, including the organized distribution and sale of drugs (see Mem of State Exec Dept, 1970 McKinney’s Session Laws of NY, at 3024). Under the statute, “three conditions . . . must be met if the Deputy Attorney-General in charge of the OCTF is to appear before the grand jury: (1) the Governor must give his approval; (2) the appropriate District Attorney must request or approve such appearance; and (3) the [gjrand [j]ury proceeding must be concerned with multicounty or interstate conduct” (People v Rallo, 39 NY2d 217, 222 [1976]). While the authority afforded to OCTF must not be interpreted in an unduly restrictive manner that thwarts its role, care must also be taken that its powers do not balloon beyond those that are “explicitly or by necessary implication” bestowed by the Legislature (Matter of B.T. Prods. v Barr, 44 NY2d 226, 236 [1978]; see People v Rallo, supra at 225 [Jasen, J, concurring]). Separate letters from the Governor and the Cortland County District Attorney authorized the Deputy Attorney General in charge of OCTF, or his assistants, to “attend ... a term or terms of the Supreme Court or County Court of Cortland County, and to appear before the grand jury thereof, for the purpose of managing and conducting in that court any criminal and related civil action or proceeding concerned with . . . [a]ny crimes committed by” certain named individuals, including Fezza, as well as “their chain of customers and suppliers of controlled substances and other co-conspirators and agents.” The letters further stated that the crimes subject to OCTF prosecution included: “Criminal Sale and Possession of Controlled Substances, Conspiracy and other crimes committed incident to these crimes or the prosecution thereof.” These letters clearly established the first two requirements for invoking Executive Law § 70-a (7) regarding the individuals named therein and no argument has been made that the third requirement, multijurisdictional criminal activity, was not satisfied regarding those named individuals. The issue before us, however, is whether the grant of authority to OCTF is sufficiently broad to include an individual not specifically named in the authorizing letters, but who allegedly assaulted a person who had cooperated with police regarding one of the named targets of the investigation. In order for OCTF to prosecute a person not specifically named as a target in the authorizing letters, there must be both a close connection between a named person and the unnamed person, and the unnamed person’s acts must be “incident to” the crimes allegedly committed by the named individual. With regard to the connection between defendant and Fezza, their familial relationship is not dispositive. The important facts are that Fezza was a named suspect in the multijurisdictional drug investigation, Becker had ostensibly provided some assistance to police regarding the investigation of Fezza, defendant was aware both that Fezza was under investigation and that Becker was a potential witness and defendant assaulted Becker because of her cooperation in the investigation. We are of the opinion that such evidence, at least, establishes a sufficiently close nexus to the multijurisdictional criminal activity to fall within the authority given OCTF without creating “a roving commission, acting in excess of its limited jurisdiction and usurping the prerogatives of the District Attorney” (People v Rallo, supra at 225 [Jasen, J., concurring] [emphasis added]). Indeed, there can be little doubt that criminals operating in the type of organized manner that OCTF was created to combat often resort to intimidation of potential witnesses (see e.g. United States v Davis, 845 F2d 412, 413 [1988] [potential witness shot, others recant under suspicious circumstances]; Alvarado v Superior Court, 23 Cal 4th 1121, 1150 n 15, 5 P3d 203, 222 n 15 [2000], cert denied 532 US 990 [2001] [“The use of violence and intimidation by criminal gangs to immunize themselves from the criminal justice system is by no means a recent phenomenon”]). In our view, an assault knowingly made upon a potential witness in a multijurisdictional drug investigation is sufficiently “incident to” the alleged multijurisdictional crimes to fall within the authority given OCTF (cf. People v Young, 220 AD2d 872 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 909 [1995]). Thus, we find that the prosecution of such conduct by OCTF falls within the parameters of the authorizing letters and is consistent with the underlying enabling legislation. Since we find that Mindell properly appeared before the grand jury pursuant to Executive Law § 70-a (7), it is not necessary to address the People’s alternative argument that his appearance was appropriate because he had been appointed an Assistant District Attorney for Cortland County. Crew III, J.P., Peters, Spain and Carpinello, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, motion denied and indictment reinstated.
Spain, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Warren County (Austin, J.), entered November 20, 2001, which, inter alia, denied respondent Kimberly Stimpson’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 6, to modify a prior order of custody. Respondents are the parents of a child born in May 1995. They married in October 1997 and separated the following year, divorcing in 2001. In 1998, petitioner, the child’s paternal grandmother, filed for custody, having cared for him since birth in her home with the help of her husband (who died in 2001), a minimum of four uninterrupted days every week. In August 1998, the parties agreed to a final consent order giving petitioner physical custody with joint custody in all parties, the parents having open and liberal visitation. In September 1998, respondent Kimberly Stimpson (hereinafter the mother) filed a modification petition requesting that she and respondent Ernest Stimpson (hereinafter the father) be given joint custody with visitation rights to petitioner; petitioner filed a cross petition alleging that the mother violated the consent order by refusing to return the child after a visitation. Thereafter, a lengthy hearing was held at which the parties and other witnesses testified, including the mental health social worker who had interviewed, observed and evaluated the parties and the child, and various documents were received, including the social worker’s forensic report. Family Court awarded custody of the child to petitioner employing a best interest analysis. The mother was awarded visitation with the child three out of every four specified weekends from Saturday at noon to Sunday at 6:00 p.m. and major holidays, and open and liberal telephone contact; the father, who had appeared personally on October 2, 1998 but not thereafter, received reasonable visitation. On the mother’s appeal, we reversed and remitted, finding that Family Court had failed to make the threshold finding of extraordinary circumstances (see Matter of Bennett v Jeffreys, 40 NY2d 543, 544 [1976]) necessary to justify an award of custody to a nonparent over the biological parent, prior to addressing the child’s best interest (281 AD2d 860 [2001]). Upon remittal, Family Court conducted several days of hearings at which all of the parties again testified and other current testimony and updated documentary evidence were adduced addressing the parents’ circumstances, the parties’ contact with the child and the child’s well-being. Family Court determined that the conduct of the parents with respect to their child supported a finding of extraordinary circumstances requiring his placement with a third party (i.e., nonbiological parent) and, adhering to its factual findings in its earlier (August 1999) decision and order, found that it would be in the best interest of the child to award custody to petitioner, with visitation as previously awarded to the parents. The mother appeals, and we affirm. Upon review of the most recent testimony and proof, as well as that adduced at the prior hearing, we find that Family Court properly determined that petitioner proved that extraordinary circumstances existed which warranted denying the mother custody of her child (see Matter of Bennett v Jeffreys, supra at 550; 281 AD2d 860, 861 [2001], supra; see also Matter of Scala v Parker, 304 AD2d 858, 859 [2003]). We accord great deference to the court’s factual findings based, as they are, upon its superior position to view the witnesses and assess their credibility, and we find they represent a fully supportable and fair view of the testimony and evidence (see Matter of Scala v Parker, supra at 859). Most notably, the court found among the extraordinary circumstances that “[t]he child has been cared for by petitioner for almost all of his life,” on a voluntary basis from his birth until August 1998 and, thereafter, pursuant to the consent order. The court also concluded that the mother failed to exercise her visitation rights “for extended periods of time,” despite the court order giving her regular and significant contact with him. In our view, the proof supports the court’s finding that the mother persistently neglected the child (see Bisignano v Walz, 164 AD2d 317, 319-320 [1990]; see also Matter of Star Leslie W., 63 NY2d 136, 142-143 [1984]). The record amply reflects that at all times since his birth, it was petitioner (along with her late husband) who primarily provided for the child’s financial, physical, educational, medical and psychological needs, with only very sporadic and minimal involvement by the mother. As such, the mother’s conduct amounted to an abdication of her parental responsibilities (see Matter of Gray v Chambers, 222 AD2d 753, 754 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 811 [1996]; Matter of Culver v Culver, 190 AD2d 960, 961-962 [1993]; cf. Matter of Burghdurf v Rogers, 256 AD2d 1023, 1024 [1998]). Under the totality of circumstances, including the child’s lifelong relationship with petitioner, who assumed the primary parental role in his parents’ absence and who provided most of his care, and the mother’s failure to maintain an established household, as well as her failure to consistently exercise visitation or maintain meaningful contact with him, we perceive no basis upon which to disturb Family Court’s findings of extraordinary circumstances and that joint custody is no longer feasible (see Matter of Bennett v Jeffreys, supra at 550-551; Matter of Scala v Parker, supra at 859-860). As to Family Court’s finding that awarding sole custody to petitioner was in the child’s best interest, the mother makes no compelling argument to undermine that conclusion. Moreover, the record reflects that the child already has a fully-bonded parent-child relationship with petitioner, who has demonstrated her capacity and willingness to care for him, and that he has thrived in her care. Also, the evidence at the rehearing established that the father, who had overcome some of his substance abuse problems and become actively involved in the child’s daily life, agreed that maintaining petitioner’s custody was in the child’s best interest. The Law Guardian also advocated this position. As the court’s findings in this regard have a sound and substantial basis in the record, they will not be disturbed. Mercure, J.P., Peters, Carpinello and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs.
Carpinello, J. Appeal from an decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed June 29, 2001, which ruled that claimant sustained a compensable injury and awarded benefits under the Volunteer Firefighters’ Benefit Law. In October 1998, claimant broke a metatarsal bone in his right foot while performing his duties as a volunteer firefighter. Shortly thereafter, he began having problems with his left knee for which he underwent arthroscopic surgery. Several months later, claimant complained of lower back pain, as well as right knee pain. It is undisputed that claimant’s right foot and left knee injuries are causally related to the October 1998 incident. Although claimant’s physician opined that the back and right knee pain were indirectly related to this accident, the employer and its workers’ compensation carrier (hereinafter collectively referred to as the carrier) dispute this contention. Following a hearing at which claimant’s physician was the only witness, the Workers’ Compensation Law Judge (hereinafter WCLJ) found that he had sustained a permanent partial disability, including consequential back and right knee injuries, resulting in a 75% or greater loss of earning capacity. The Workers’ Compensation Board sustained the WCLJ’s determination, and the carrier now appeals. Pursuant to Volunteer Firefighters’ Benefit Law § 3 (8), whether a claimant has suffered a loss of “earning capacity” is measured by the ability to continue performing the employment duties that he or she routinely performed prior to being injured (see Matter of Dentico v Village of Walworth, 254 AD2d 515 [1998]). Here, the record establishes that claimant, a steamfitter for the past 35 years, is unlikely to receive clearance to return to work and is therefore entitled to disability benefits. In addition, substantial evidence in the form of expert medical testimony supports the Board’s decision that claimant suffered a 75% or greater loss of earning capacity. Claimant’s treating physician testified that the injuries sustained to his right foot and left knee caused consequential injuries to his right knee and back and that due to the labor-intensive nature of steamfitting, claimant is permanently disabled from resuming this type of employment (see Matter of Seaman v County of Onondaga, 253 AD2d 953 [1998]). Finally, we are unpersuaded that the WCLJ erred by refusing to grant an adjournment to enable the presentation of testimony from the carrier’s expert witness following his unexcused absence from the scheduled hearing. Given the lack of any explanation for the physician’s failure to appear on the appointed date, it was within the WCLJ’s authority to deny an adjournment and proceed to a determination based upon the record before her (see 12 NYCRR 300.10 [b]; see also Matter of Metzger v Champion Intl. Corp., 301 AD2d 800 [2003]; Matter of Rose v International Paper Co., 290 AD2d 664 [2002]). The remaining contentions raised on appeal have been reviewed and found to be without merit. Mercure, J.P., Mugglin, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs. The carrier’s medical expert was precluded from testifying because good cause was not established to excuse his failure to appear at the hearing.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Broome County (Connerton, J.), entered June 13, 2002, which, inter alia, granted respondent’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 6, to modify a prior order of custody. Petitioner (hereinafter the father) and respondent (hereinafter the mother) are the divorced parents of two children. In January 2000, upon consent of the parties, Family Court entered an order granting sole custody of the children to the mother with visitation to the father. The father commenced these proceedings in January 2002, seeking to punish the mother for violation of the prior custody order and seeking a modification transferring sole custody to him. Following evidentiary hearings, Family Court awarded sole custody to the father, with visitation rights to the mother. She appeals. Family Ct Act § 262 (a) provides that when certain parties first appear in court, Family Court must advise them of their right to be represented by counsel of their own choosing, of their right to have an adjournment to confer with counsel, and of their right to have counsel assigned by the court if they are financially unable to retain counsel. Among the persons who must be so advised are a parent who contests any substantial infringement of his or her right to custody (see Family Ct Act § 262 [a] [v]) and any person who, in any proceeding before the court, is sought to be held in contempt or in willful violation of a previous court order (see Family Ct Act § 262 [a] [vi]). Although the mother was entitled to such advice under both of these cited subdivisions of the statute, the record reveals that she was not advised of her right to counsel until the father had rested with respect to his violation petition. Consistent with our precedent, reversal is mandated (see Matter of Wilson v Bennett, 282 AD2d 933, 935 [2001]). Moreover, even when Family Court belatedly advised the mother of her right to counsel, Family Court failed to conduct the required in depth inquiry to ascertain that the mother’s decision to proceed pro se was knowingly, intelligently and voluntarily made (see Matter of Bauer v Bost, 298 AD2d 648, 650 [2002]; Matter of Bombard v Bombard, 254 AD2d 529, 529-530 [1998], lv denied 93 NY2d 804 [1999]). As a consequence, the order must be reversed and the matter remitted to Family Court for a new hearing and determination (see Matter of Williams-Foreman v Crandell, 306 AD2d 570, 571 [2003]; Matter of Circe v Circe, 289 AD2d 620, 622 [2001]). Crew III, J.P, Spain, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, without costs, matter remitted to the Family Court of Broome County for a new hearing, and the present order shall remain in full force and effect pending such further determination.
Rose, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Broome County (Pines, J.), entered October 5, 2001, which, inter alia, granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 6, to modify a prior ciistody order. Petitioner and respondent, who never married, are the parents of a child born in 1988. In November 1994, by an order entered upon consent, the parties were awarded joint legal custody with the child’s primary physical residence being with respondent, who was then living in her parents’ home. A subsequent court order, entered in December 1995, continued this joint custody arrangement and modified petitioner’s visitation schedule. The child then continued to reside with respondent and her parents until November 2000 when respondent left their home to reside in an adjoining county. Petitioner then sought to modify the 1995 order by awarding him primary physical custody of the child, but his petition specifically sought to continue joint custody. Respondent, in turn, filed a petition alleging a violation of visitation. Following a hearing, Family Court dismissed respondent’s petition, denied her request that the assigned judge recuse himself, modified custody by awarding petitioner sole legal custody of the child and granted respondent visitation comparable to that previously provided to petitioner. On appeal, respondent contends that Family Court erred in denying her motion seeking recusal and granting sole custody to petitioner when he did not seek such relief. While modification of an existing joint custody agreement is warranted where the relationship between joint custodial parents so deteriorates that they are wholly unable to cooperate in making decisions affecting their child (see e.g. Matter of Jemmott v Jemmott, 249 AD2d 838, 839 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 809 [1998]), this record does not support such a finding. Although Family Court found that the parties do not communicate well, the testimony at the hearing established that petitioner’s work schedule often makes him unavailable and respondent has an open line of communication through petitioner’s wife. Both parties also acknowledge that they have had direct communication, discussed the child’s discipline and living arrangements, and reached agreement as to some of those issues. This relationship, together with the fact that neither petitioner nor the Law Guardian requested a change to sole legal custody, leads us to conclude that the parties’ relationship was not shown to be “ ‘so acrimonious that they are incapable of putting aside their differences’ ” (Webster v Webster, 283 AD2d 732, 734 [2001], quoting Matter of Meres v Botsch, 260 AD2d 757, 759 [1999]). Thus, it was error to terminate the joint custody arrangement rather than to simply award primary physical custody to petitioner (see Matter of Darrow v Burlingame, 298 AD2d 651, 652 [2002]). Respondent’s Temaining contention has been examined and found to be without merit given Family Court’s broad discretion in deciding whether or not recusal is appropriate (see Matter of De Ruzzio v De Ruzzio, 288 AD2d 725, 726 [2001]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Carpinello and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as awarded sole legal custody of the child to petitioner; reinstate joint legal custody; and, as so modified, affirmed.
Mercure, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Kavanagh, J.), entered May 28, 2002 in Ulster County, ordering, inter alia, equitable distribution of the parties’ marital property, upon a decision of the court. Plaintiff and defendant were married in August 1985. In 1987, plaintiff sold his fuel oil business, which he owned prior to the marriage, for $600,000. Thereafter, in 1988, plaintiff purchased a parcel of real property in Montgomery County (hereinafter the Montgomery property) for $107,000, with title held solely in his name. That same year, the parties began constructing the marital residence on a parcel of land in the Town of Gardiner, Ulster County (hereinafter the Gardiner property), which plaintiff had acquired prior to the marriage. The parties obtained a mortgage on the Gardiner property sometime after 1988 and defendant’s name was added to the deed in 1995. Plaintiff commenced this action for divorce in October 2000. Following trial, Supreme Court, among other things, granted the parties a divorce and awarded them joint custody of their two minor children, with primary physical custody to defendant. The court also ordered that the Gardiner and Montgomery properties be sold, with the proceeds to be divided equally between the parties, awarded defendant maintenance in the amount of $100 per week for a period of four years and child support in the amount of $300 per week. This appeal by plaintiff ensued. Plaintiff initially contends that Supreme Court erred in failing to credit him in the amount of $465,000 for his contribution of separate property to the acquisition of the Gardiner and Montgomery properties, as well as the construction of the marital residence. “Property acquired during the marriage is presumed to be marital property and the party seeking to overcome such presumption has the burden of proving that the property in dispute was separate property” (Walasek v Walasek, 243 AD2d 851, 854 [1997] [citation omitted]; see DeJesus v DeJesus, 90 NY2d 643, 652 [1997]). We agree that the $58,000 that plaintiff used to purchase the Gardiner property prior to the parties’ marriage constitutes a separate asset and, thus, plaintiff is entitled to a credit in that amount (see Lord v Lord, 124 AD2d 930, 932 [1986]). We are not convinced, however, that plaintiff has met his burden of demonstrating that the remaining $407,000 at issue is separate property. Plaintiff claims that this $407,000 was derived from the sale of his fuel oil business in 1987; the record, however, does not contain a paper trail documenting the distribution of the proceeds from the sale of that business. While this alone is not fatal to plaintiffs claim (see Zanger v Zanger, 1 AD3d 865, 867 [2003] [decided herewith]; Sarafian v Sarafian, 140 AD2d 801, 804 [1988]), plaintiff has also failed to provide documentation of his claim that the proceeds were placed in an account solely in his name, rather than commingled in a joint account as defendant’s testimony suggests, and thereby transformed into marital property (see Carney v Carney, 202 AD2d 907, 908 [1994]; Glazer v Glazer, 190 AD2d 951, 953 [1993]). Inasmuch as plaintiff failed to establish—beyond his disputed testimony— that the proceeds from the sale of his business remained separate property, he has not succeeded in rebutting the presumption that this once separate asset became marital property (see Jones v Jones, 289 AD2d 983, 983-984 [2001], lv dismissed 97 NY2d 749 [2002]; Carney v Carney, supra at 908; Glazer v Glazer, supra at 953; Sarafian v Sarafian, supra at 804). Moreover, even assuming that the proceeds used to construct the house did not come from a joint account, we are not persuaded—as the dissent is—that plaintiff met his burden by demonstrating that there was no other possible source for the moneys used to initially fund the construction of the marital residence and purchase of the Montgomery property (cf. Zanger v Zanger, supra at 867; Sarafian v Sarafian, supra at 804). During the relevant time period, plaintiff, as he does now, owned a number of additional rent-generating properties. Indeed, these rents now constitute the bulk of plaintiff’s annual income. Plaintiff failed, however, to show that rental income from these properties received after the parties’ marriage was not the source of the funds at issue. Moreover, a $200,000 mortgage in both parties’ names was taken out on the house. The record is unclear regarding whether the funds from this mortgage were used to finance additional construction or to reimburse plaintiff for whatever money he may have contributed to the house. Thus, we cannot say that Supreme Court abused its discretion here in refusing to credit plaintiffs testimony with respect to the source of the funds for these transactions (cf. Sarafian v Sarafian, supra at 804-805). Plaintiffs credit must be limited to the $58,000 used to purchase the Gardiner property. Plaintiff is correct, however, in his assertion that Supreme Court erred in calculating his income for purposes of determining his child support obligation. Supreme Court calculated plaintiffs annual income to be $84,680, but neglected to credit plaintiff for expenses associated with two rental properties. Inasmuch as “income,” for purposes of determining child support, includes “investment income reduced by sums expended in connection with such investment” (Domestic Relations Law § 240 [1-b] [b] [5] [ii]), we conclude that plaintiff is entitled to a credit for the expenses he incurred in connection with each of these parcels. As set forth on the parties’ 2000 federal tax return, plaintiffs out-of-pocket expenses total $32,508 for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other expenses. In light of the credits due plaintiff, we deem it appropriate to remit this matter to Supreme Court for a redistribution of the parties’ marital property, as well as a redetermination of plaintiffs maintenance and child support obligations. We note with respect to equitable distribution that, contrary to Supreme Court’s conclusion that the parties’ marital property should be distributed equally, “[t]he distribution, based on the factors enumerated in the statute (Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [5] [d]), must be equitable, not merely a 50/50 split of assets” (Sarafian v Sarafian, supra at 804). The remaining arguments raised have been examined and found to be lacking in merit. Cardona, EJ. and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. . Plaintiff testified that he placed funds from the sale of his business in an account at a certain bank in his name only and that he had no other bank accounts “available to [him].” Defendant indicated that the bank account was a joint account at that time and that all money that came in from any source was placed in this account. Defendant stated that her name was not taken off the account until 1998, approximately 10 years after the parties commenced construction of the marital residence. . More precisely, plaintiff receives $70,200 in rental income from the Montgomery property, a parcel of land in Queens County and a commercial sign, as well as $12,600 in Social Security benefits and $1,980 in pension benefits. These payments actually total $84,780 annually.
Rose, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Sullivan County (Meddaugh, J.), entered April 29, 2002, which, inter alia, granted petitioners’ application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 6, to modify a prior order of custody. Petitioners are the maternal grandparents of Kimberly (born in 1997) and Kami (born in 2000), and respondent is the children’s biological mother. Petitioners and respondent were awarded joint custody of Kimberly by a Family Court order on consent dated August 24, 1998, and respondent was awarded sole custody of Kami by a second order on consent dated June 29, 2001. The 2001 order also directed respondent to enroll in anger management counseling. After petitioners commenced a proceeding alleging that respondent violated the counseling directive of the 2001 order, respondent petitioned for modification of the 1998 custody order to regain sole custody of Kimberly. Petitioners opposed this application and petitioned for modification of the 2001 order to award them custody of Kami. Finding no change in circumstances warranting a modification of Kimberly’s custody arrangement, Family Court denied respondent’s petition. As to Kami, however, Family Court found a change in circumstances sufficient to warrant placing her in petitioners’ custody with daily and weekend visitation granted to respondent. The court also found respondent in contempt for failing to enroll in anger management counseling. Respondent appeals. It is well settled that, as between a biological parent and a nonparent, “the parent has a superior right to custody which cannot be denied unless the parent has relinquished that right through ‘surrender, abandonment, persisting neglect, unfitness or other like extraordinary circumstances’ ” (Matter of Scala v Parker, 304 AD2d 858, 859 [2003], quoting Matter of Bennett v Jeffreys, 40 NY2d 543, 544 [1976]; see Matter of Lewis v Johnson, 302 AD2d 756, 757 [2003]). Here, Family Court made no threshold finding of extraordinary circumstances that would have then permitted consideration of whether it would be in the best interests of either child to be in the custody of petitioners rather than respondent. Instead, Family Court considered only whether there had been a change in each child’s circumstances. That was insufficient even as to Kimberly, since the 1998 consent order awarding joint custody of Kimberly to petitioners made no finding of extraordinary circumstances. Thus, it does not warrant a presumption that petitioners had satisfied the extraordinary circumstances threshold (see Matter of Moore v St. Onge, 307 AD2d 421, 422 [2003]; Matter of Scala v Parker, supra at 859). Although there is evidence in this record of respondent’s abusive boyfriend, unstable living arrangements and neglect of Kami, the parties’ failure to expressly address the issue of extraordinary circumstances renders the record insufficient to permit “intelligent appellate review of the underlying custody determination” (Matter of Lewis v Johnson, supra at 757-758; see Matter of Moore v St. Onge, supra at 422). Accordingly, we are constrained to modify Family Court’s order and remit the matter for further proceedings, including the receipt of additional evidence from the parties, if they be so advised, and Family Court must determine first whether petitioners demonstrated extraordinary circumstances as to each child and, if so, then consider the best interests of each child. During the pendency thereof, custody will remain with petitioners. Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Carpinello and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as granted petitioners’ modification petition and denied respondent’s modification petition; matter remitted to the Family Court of Sullivan County for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision; and, as so modified, affirmed.
Crew III, J.E Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Ulster County (Mizel, J.), entered October 4, 2002, which granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Social Services Law § 384-b, to adjudicate respondent’s child to be permanently neglected, and terminated respondent’s parental rights. In July 1998, petitioner removed respondent’s son (born in 1991) from her care based upon the child’s allegation that he had been sexually abused by his maternal uncle and respondent’s failure to appropriately respond to that disclosure. Following certain intervening proceedings (see Matter of Catherine MM. v Ulster County Dept. of Social Servs., 293 AD2d 778 [2002] ), petitioner commenced this proceeding seeking to terminate respondent’s parental rights. At the conclusion of the ensuing fact-finding and dispositional hearings, Family Court, in two lengthy, detailed and well-reasoned decisions, concluded that respondent indeed had permanently neglected her son by failing to, inter alia, acknowledge her role in the circumstances that led to her child’s removal from her home in the first instance and, further, that termination of respondent’s parental rights was in the child’s best interest. Respondent now appeals. We affirm. Contrary to respondent’s assertion, the record demonstrates, by clear and convincing evidence (see Matter of Karina U., 299 AD2d 772 [2002], lv denied 100 NY2d 501 [2003] ), that petitioner exercised the requisite diligent efforts by providing respondent with a host of services designed to foster a positive relationship between respondent and the child, address the very issue that led to the child’s removal from respondent’s home initially and overcome the obstacles standing in the way of the child’s return to her care and custody. These services, which plainly were tailored to address respondent’s and the child’s particular needs, included arranging individual psychotherapy for respondent, facilitating her involvement in her child’s therapy, providing various parenting services (such as a parent educator, parenting classes and a parents’ support group), scheduling, supervising and providing transportation for visitations between respondent and her son, assisting respondent in finding employment and potentially relocating and providing ongoing caseworker services and periodic updates of the child’s progress. In addition, the record reflects numerous instances where, when it became apparent that respondent’s efforts were falling short in a particular area (such as her interactions with her child during visitations), petitioner would remind respondent of the expectations imposed upon her and attempt to assist respondent in refocusing her energy and correcting her behavior. In short, this is not a case where the petitioning agency made only a marginal attempt to offer the barest of services to a parent in danger of losing his or her child. Petitioner provided detailed, appropriate and ongoing services to respondent and, in so doing, afforded respondent every opportunity to regain custody of her son. As for respondent’s efforts in this regard, the record reflects that respondent indeed participated in and cooperated with the programs and services offered by petitioner, attended service plan reviews and all of the scheduled visitations and experienced some improvement in her interactions with her son. The record also reflects, however, that respondent made only marginal progress overall by, inter alia, inconsistently applying the knowledge and benefits she obtained from the services provided, arguing with various service providers and professionals, acting inappropriately in the child’s presence, degrading the foster parents and interfering with their role as such, refusing to accept the reality that she was the parent of a special needs child (believing instead that the child’s problems would magically disappear if he simply were returned to her home), demonstrating an inability to control her anger at “the system” and refusing to acknowledge that she bore any responsibility for the child’s removal from her home. Under these circumstances, there is more than ample support for Family Court’s conclusion that respondent failed to articulate a realistic plan for the child’s return. Accordingly, we have no quarrel with Family Court’s finding that respondent permanently neglected her son. We are similarly persuaded that termination of respondent’s parental rights was in the child’s best interest. Despite the progress made by respondent, her conduct during her visitations with the child precluded such visitations progressing beyond the supervised level. Suffice to say, if a parent cannot display sufficiently appropriate conduct to enjoy unsupervised periods of time with a child, no court can seriously contemplate granting that parent custody. To the extent that respondent argues that a suspended judgment would have been a more appropriate disposition, the record completely supports Family Court’s conclusion that further efforts to foster a relationship between respondent and her son would be futile. Given the length of time the child has been in foster care, the lack of significant progress on respondent’s part and the demonstrated need for the child to have some sense of permanency, termination of respondent’s parental rights was entirely proper. Mugglin, Rose, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs.
Carpinello, J. Appeals (1) from an order of the Family Court of Cortland County (Sherman, J.), entered August 7, 2002, which granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 6, to hold respondent in violation of a prior court order, and (2) from an order of said court, entered September 26, 2002, which prohibited respondent from contacting his children. These divorced parties are the parents of three minor children. In the course of a domestic violence proceeding, an order of protection was issued in December 1999 directing respondent to stay away from petitioner and suspending his visitation. Respondent later brought a visitation modification petition but, after fact-finding and Lincoln hearings, an October 2000 order was issued awarding petitioner sole custody and continuing the suspension of respondent’s visitation. Respondent was directed to attend weekly mental health counseling for six months, at the conclusion of which he could, upon a positive recommendation by his counselor, begin limited supervised visitation with the children. One year later, petitioner brought the instant petition contending that respondent violated the terms of the October 2000 order by failing to complete the court-ordered counseling and by attempting to contact the children by telephone, at school and at athletic events. Family Court issued a temporary order of protection against respondent prohibiting any contact with the children. After holding a fact-finding hearing and considering the transcript of the prior proceeding, the court found that respondent violated the terms of the prior order and continued the suspension of visitation. The court also issued a permanent order of protection barring him from having any contact with the children until the youngest child’s 18th birthday in September 2011. On this appeal, respondent contends that the evidence before Family Court does not support its finding that he violated the terms of the prior order. We disagree. The record reflects that respondent did not attend weekly mental health counseling sessions as directed by the court, but rather saw a counselor a total of nine times, with only five visits occurring during the relevant time period. Further, the testimony of respondent’s counselor established that he did not participate in any meaningful way at those few sessions because he denied having any problems requiring counseling. In our view, respondent did not comply with the court-ordered counseling and, thus, failed to meet this condition for resumption of visitation. Accordingly, Family Court’s order continuing the suspension of visitation was proper. Nor did Family Court err when it issued the permanent order of protection barring respondent from contact with the children. To be sure, “the denial of visitation [to a noncustodial parent] is a drastic remedy” appropriate only for compelling reasons and upon a showing of substantial evidence that visitation would be detrimental to the children (Matter of Robert TT v Carol UU., 300 AD2d 920, 920 [2002]; see Matter of Nicole VV., 296 AD2d 608, 611 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 616 [2002]). In this case, respondent admitted in earlier proceedings that he had committed serious domestic violence against petitioner in the children’s presence and also caused injuries to the youngest child. While respondent readily acknowledged this conduct, and acknowledged that the children were frightened by his behavior, he has since denied having any problems that would require counseling. In light of respondent’s lack of insight into his problems, and in view of his testimony and other evidence that the children fear him, we find a sound and substantial basis for Family Court’s order of protection (see Matter of Robert TT. v Carol UU, supra at 922; Matter of Shaun X., 228 AD2d 730, 732 [1996]; cf. Matter of Strempler v Savell, 287 AD2d 827, 828 [2001]). We note that respondent can seek modification of this order of protection in the future upon a proper showing of a change in circumstances and that any resumption of visitation would be in the children’s best interests (see Matter of Nicole VV., supra at 613; Matter of Royea v Hutchings, 260 AD2d 678, 680 [1999]). Mercure, J.P., Mugglin, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the orders are affirmed, without costs.
Rose, J. Appeal from an amended order of the Family Court of Essex County (Halloran, J.), entered August 9, 2002, which granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 3, to adjudicate respondent a juvenile delinquent. Following the filing of a juvenile delinquency petition, a fact-finding hearing was conducted at which respondent admitted to an act which, if committed by an adult, would constitute the crime of criminal mischief in the fourth degree, and Family Court adjudicated him to be a juvenile delinquent. A dispositional order was rendered in August 2002 after which respondent was placed in the custody of the Office of Children and Family Services for a period of one year. Respondent now appeals, arguing that Family Court did not properly allocute his parents in accordance with the requirements of Family Ct Act § 321.3 (1). Family Ct Act § 321.3 governs the acceptance of an admission in the context of a juvenile delinquency proceeding and provides that at the fact-finding hearing: “The court shall . . . ascertain through allocution of the respondent and his parent or other person legally responsible for his care, if present, that (a) he committed the act or acts to which he is entering an admission, (b) he is voluntarily waiving his right to a fact-finding hearing, and (c) he is aware of the possible specific dispositional orders” (Family Ct Act § 321.3 [1]). Here, the transcript of the fact-finding hearing reveals that Family Court engaged in essentially two exchanges with respondent’s parents. In the first, the court described the proceedings, including the fact-finding hearing, its waiver and the possible dispositions. The court then asked the parents if they understood the procedure that had been described, to which the father responded, “Yes I do,” and the mother’s response, although unintelligible to the transcriber, appears from its context to have been equally affirmative. In the second, the court described the proposed plea agreement and asked the parents, “how do you feel about your son standing up here under oath and admitting that he committed this act.” The father stated that it was an appropriate resolution, and the mother responded that it was the proper resolution “[f]or now.” While the court’s inquiry could have been put more directly, it served the statutory purpose of eliciting the parents’ understanding and assent to respondent’s voluntary waiver of his rights and his admission that he committed the acts charged (cf. Matter of Tiffany MM., 298 AD2d 728, 729 [2002]; Matter of Neftaly R., 283 AD2d 579, 580 [2001]). We are not persuaded by respondent’s contention that the statute required his parents to admit that he committed the acts to which he entered an admission, and we read it to require only that the court confirm that the parents do not object to the child making such an admission (see Matter of Eric CC., 298 AD2d 632, 633 [2002]). Crew III, J.P., Mugglin, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the amended order is affirmed, without costs.
Carpinello, J . Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Sheridan, J.), entered August 28, 2002 in Albany County, which denied petitioners’ motion pursuant to CPLR 2308 (b) to compel respondents to comply with certain subpoenas duces tecum. This appeal arises from the denial of a motion to compel compliance with subpoenas issued in the course of petitioners’ investigation of the St. Jude Retreat House, a residential alcohol and drug recovery facility located in the Town of Hagaman, Montgomery County. Petitioner New York State Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse Services (hereinafter OASAS) initially determined that the Retreat House did not provide alcoholism or substance abuse services based on information provided by the Retreat House. It subsequently commenced an investigation of the matter, however, after a review of the Retreat House’s Internet Web site and other materials, including a patient complaint and report of a resident’s death, suggested that it indeed might be providing services for which state certification was required. In the course of the investigation, petitioner Commissioner of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services (hereinafter petitioner) issued subpoenas duces tecum demanding that respondents produce all documents related to the operation of the Retreat House, as well as an affiliated financing company and apparent umbrella organization, for the period January 1998 through July 2001. Respondents refused to comply, and Supreme Court (Malone, Jr., J.) found that the subpoenas were overbroad and denied petitioners’ CPLR 2308 (b) motion to compel compliance. Petitioner then issued new subpoenas seeking specific categories of documents for three one-week periods. When respondents again refused to comply, petitioners brought the instant motion to compel. Supreme Court found that the new subpoenas were still overbroad and lacked a sufficient factual basis in that petitioners had failed to show how the Retreat House’s programs had changed since OASAS’s earlier determination that certification was not required. Accordingly, Supreme Court denied the motion, and petitioners appeal. In order to enforce these subpoenas, petitioner was required only to demonstrate her authority to investigate and issue subpoenas, the factual basis underlying this investigation and the relevance of the documents being sought (see Matter of Levin v Murawski, 59 NY2d 35, 40-41 [1983]; Matter of A’Hearn v Committee on Unlawful Practice of Law, 23 NY2d 916, 918 [1969], cert denied 395 US 959 [1969]; Matter of National Freelancers v State Tax Commn., 126 AD2d 218, 220 [1987], lv denied 70 NY2d 602 [1987]). To this end, petitioner “need only make a preliminary showing that the information sought is reasonably related to a proper subject of inquiry” (Matter of Nicholson v State Commn. on Jud. Conduct, 50 NY2d 597, 611 [1980]). Pursuant to Mental Hygiene Law article 32, petitioner is authorized “to conduct investigations into the operations of providers of services which are required ... to have operating certificates” (Mental Hygiene Law § 32.13), including residential programs providing “care, custody, or treatment of persons suffering from chemical abuse or dependence” (Mental Hygiene Law § 32.05 [a] [1]). In that regard, she is empowered to obtain and examine records and other information in furtherance of those investigations (see Mental Hygiene Law § 32.15 [a]). Respondents maintain that petitioner does not have the authority to investigate the Retreat House because it does not provide alcohol or substance abuse services. This argument, however, “begs the question” inasmuch as petitioner’s investigation is for the very purpose of determining the nature of the Retreat House’s program and services (Matter of Citizens Helping Achieve New Growth & Empl.—N.Y. v New York State Bd. of Elections, 201 AD2d 245, 247 [1994], lv denied 84 NY2d 811 [1994]). Certainly, the Retreat House’s Internet Web site suggests that its services might fall within OASAS’s purview. The Retreat House and its affiliates described themselves as offering a “a solution for drug and alcohol problems” that teaches residents “how to get sober and drug free and how to stay that way.” According to the Web site, program participants not only follow the Retreat House’s “recovery methodology,” but can also receive drug screening, breathalyzer testing and medical, psychiatric and. detoxification consultations for additional fees. In our view, this and other evidence in the record provides a sufficient factual basis for petitioner’s investigation (see Matter of Levin v Murawski, supra at 41; Myerson v Lentini Bros. Moving & Stor. Co., 33 NY2d 250, 258 [1973]). Further, the documents being sought, which include operating policies and procedures and records of services provided by the Retreat House and its affiliates during three one-week periods, are reasonably related to petitioner’s investigation (see Matter of New York State Commn. on Jud. Conduct v Doe, 61 NY2d 56, 61 [1984]; Matter of Sachs v New York State Racing & Wagering Bd., 227 AD2d 802, 803 [1996]; Matter of Citizens Helping Achieve New Growth & Empl.—N.Y. v New York State Bd. of Elections, supra at 247). In our view, petitioners have made a sufficient showing to sustain the subpoenas and, thus, their motion to compel compliance with same should have been granted. Cardona, P.J., Peters and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is reversed, without costs, and motion granted.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of St. Lawrence County (Rogers, J.), entered October 11, 2002, which granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 3, to modify respondent’s placement. By reason of respondent’s continued behavioral problems, petitioner sought, pursuant to Family Ct Act § 355.1, an order modifying the original order of disposition which had placed respondent, as a juvenile delinquent, with petitioner until February 21, 2003. After a hearing, Family Court modified respondent’s placement by transferring his custody to the Office of Children and Family Services. Despite the clear mandate of Family Ct Act § 355.1 (3), Family Court also extended respondent’s placement seven months, that is, to September 26, 2003. Respondent now appeals. Petitioner’s counsel has candidly advised the Court that he agrees that Family Court exceeded its jurisdiction when it extended respondent’s placement. However, where the sole issue on appeal is the validity of a placement period of a juvenile delinquent, the expiration of the placement period and release from custody renders the appeal moot (see Matter of Kristie II., 252 AD2d 807, 808 [1998]; Matter of Randy NN., 247 AD2d 710, 710-711 [1998]; Matter of Donald MM., 241 AD2d 634, 634 [1997]; Matter of Mary R. v Sullivan County Dept, of Social Servs., 217 AD2d 815, 815 [1995]). Respondent has been afforded all the relief he seeks on this appeal, making it unnecessary to rule on the validity of the order (see Matter of Joshua OO., 254 AD2d 519, 519 [1998]; Matter of Anthony G., 247 AD2d 792, 793 [1998]; cf. Matter of Trebor UU, 287 AD2d 830, 830-831 [2001]). Moreover, no exception to the mootness doctrine is applicable (see Matter of Randy NN, supra at 710; Matter of Jason S., 208 AD2d 1015, 1016 [1994]). Crew III, J.E, Spain, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the appeal is dismissed, as moot, without costs.
Crew III, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Broome County (Ray, J.), entered October 22, 2002, which granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 10, to adjudicate respondent Carol C.’s children to be abused and neglected. Petitioner commenced this abuse and neglect proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 10 alleging, inter alia, that the three children of respondent Carol C. (hereinafter the mother), Russell B. (born in 1988), Brittany B. (born in 1992) and Kayla B. (born in 1996), were engaging in inappropriate sexual conduct with one another and that the mother and her paramour, respondent Tobin S. (hereinafter respondent) were aware of such conduct and failed to prevent it. The petition further alleged that the mother and respondent neglected the children by failing to, inter alia, address Russell’s medical needs and keep the home free of animal feces and noxious odors, and that respondent watched pornographic movies with Russell. Following a hearing, at which respondent did not testify, Family Court determined that the foregoing allegations had been proven by a preponderance of the evidence and, accordingly, adjudicated Russell, Brittany and Kayla abused and neglected children. This appeal by respondent ensued. As to the abuse adjudication, respondent, as so limited by his brief, contends only that “the corroborating statements of the children fail to satisfy a ‘threshold of reliability’ as to whether respondent actually had observed Russell sexually abusing Brittany and Kayla” (citing Matter of Stephen GG., 279 AD2d 651, 652 [2001]). We cannot agree. Whatever inconsistencies may have existed regarding which sister Russell was “playing married” with at a particular point in time or the precise number of times such incidents occurred does not render the statements regarding respondent’s observations and knowledge of these events unreliable. Respondent’s remaining contentions, including his assertion that the record as a whole fails to establish that the children were subjected to unsanitary living conditions, have been examined and found to be lacking in merit. Cardona, P.J., Carpinello, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs. We note in passing that this is not the first time these children have been the subjects of such a proceeding (see Matter of Russell B., 257 AD2d 707 [1999]).
Rose, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Albany County (Duggan, J.), entered August 14, 2002, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 4, for modification of a prior order of child support. The parties, who were married in 1976, separated in 1997 and divorced in 2001, are the parents of an autistic child who was born in 1993. Their separation agreement, which was incorporated but not merged in the divorce judgment, provided that respondent was to have custody of the child while petitioner was to pay child support in the amount of 17% of his income or $1,449 per month. Soon after the divorce, respondent placed the child in full-time, year-round residential care at public expense, a placement which petitioner had desired and respondent had previously rejected. In response, petitioner filed a petition seeking termination of child support. Despite proof that the child’s room, board and tuition were being paid from public funds, the Hearing Examiner found insufficient evidence of a substantial change in circumstances, dismissed the petition “without prejudice” and Family Court affirmed. Petitioner then filed a second petition, later amended, asserting that the child’s residence at public expense outside respondent’s home and a nearly 100% increase in respondent’s income warranted modification of child support. The Hearing Examiner held that the second petition sought to relitigate issues that were raised, or could have been raised, in the earlier proceeding. Family Court agreed that res judicata barred the second petition and rejected petitioner’s objections. Petitioner now appeals. As we find merit in petitioner’s argument that the original dismissal without prejudice precluded the Hearing Examiner and Family Court from dismissing his second petition on res judicata grounds, we reverse. An order of dismissal is entitled to res judicata effect where the circumstances evince that it is on the merits or with prejudice to relitigation of the earlier claim (see Parker v Blauvelt Volunteer Fire Co., 93 NY2d 343, 347 [1999]; Vinci v Northside Partnership, 250 AD2d 965, 965-966 [1998]). However, where the court specifies that the dismissal is without prejudice, res judicata does not preclude assertion of the same claim or issue in a second proceeding (see Parker v Blauvelt Volunteer Fire Co., supra at 349; Miller Mfg. Co. v Zeiler, 45 NY2d 956, 958 [1978]; Brandenberg v Primus Assoc., 304 AD2d 694, 695 [2003]; see also Matter of Stacey O. v Donald P., 137 AD2d 965, 965-966 [1988]). Here, the Hearing Examiner’s first order of dismissal expressly states that the dismissal is without prejudice and this was later confirmed by Family Court. Thus, even if this order collaterally estops petitioner from relitigating whether the child’s placement alone constitutes a substantial change in circumstances (see Parker v Blauvelt Volunteer Fire Co., supra at 349-350), it does not preclude his second petition, which seeks modification rather than termination and cites additional grounds that, when considered in terms of their financial impact on petitioner’s child support obligation, could constitute a substantial change in circumstances. Accordingly, misapplication of res judicata and the failure to require respondent to make the financial disclosure mandated by Family Ct Act § 424-a, a requirement that cannot be waived (see Family Ct Act § 424-a [a]), require reversal and remittal. Family Court should explicitly assess the child’s financial resources, the financial impact of his residential care upon respondent and respondent’s increased income in determining whether a substantial change has occurred and, if so, calculate any change in petitioner’s pro rata share of combined parental income and an appropriate reduction in child support as a reasoned deviation from the child support guidelines, particularly as to the amount by which petitioner’s income exceeds $80,000 (see Matter of Mezz v Hitchcock, 252 AD2d 633, 634 [1998]). Mercure, J.P., Peters, Spain and Carpinello, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, without costs, and matter remitted to the Family Court of Albany County for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Peters, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Albany County (Duggan, J.), entered November 27, 2002, which granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Social Services Law § 384-b, to adjudicate respondent’s child to be abandoned, and terminated respondent’s parental rights. Kerrianne AA. (born in 1989) was removed from respondent’s custody and placed with petitioner on May 18, 1999 where she has remained. In March 2002, a petition was filed to terminate respondent’s parental rights solely on the ground of abandonment. After a fact-finding hearing, Family Court found that petitioner demonstrated, by clear and convincing evidence, that respondent abandoned her daughter as defined by Social Services Law § 384-b (5) (a). At the conclusion of the dispositional hearing, respondent’s parental rights were terminated and this appeal followed. A finding of abandonment will not be disturbed if it can be “established, by clear and convincing evidence, that during the six-month period immediately prior to the date of the filing of the petition, respondent failed to visit or communicate with the child or petitioner although able to do so, if not prevented or discouraged from doing so by petitioner” (Matter of Arianna SS., 275 AD2d 498, 499 [2000]; see Social Services Law § 384-b [5] [a]; Matter of Gabrielle HH., 306 AD2d 571, 572 [2003], lv granted 100 NY2d 512 [2003]; Matter of Michelle S., 234 AD2d 800, 801 [1996]). With the ability of respondent to visit and/or communicate presumed (see Social Services Law § 384-b [5] [a]), the burden shifts to respondent to prove an inability to maintain contact or that petitioner discouraged or prevented her from doing so (see Matter of Peter F., 281 AD2d 821, 823 [2001]). Renee Allen, a caseworker for petitioner, testified that other than a voice mail message received from respondent shortly before the commencement of the relevant six-month period, respondent made no contact with either the child or petitioner. Allen testified that in response to that voice mail message, she sent respondent a letter, dated September 18, 2001, which told her how to regain custody and advised her to contact either Allen or Mary Purdy, a clinician with Parson’s Child and Family Center, if she wished to set up visitation. Allen testified that, despite these directions, Purdy, who reported to her, confirmed that respondent made no contact during the relevant period. Respondent’s counsel sought to challenge Allen’s testimony concerning the lack of contact by introducing a letter, dated January 28, 2002, from Purdy to Family Court which updated the child’s status in placement. While such letter detailed that respondent failed to attend counseling or arrange for visitation with Kerrianne, despite numerous reminders by petitioner, it also referenced a telephone conversation that respondent had with Purdy during the relevant period in which respondent expressed an interest in resuming visitation. However, the record clearly shows that respondent did not visit, and that she did not testify or offer any witnesses at trial. Moreover, respondent successfully precluded Purdy from testifying at trial. Finding respondent’s reliance on Matter of Xena X. (279 AD2d 691 [2001]) misplaced and iterating that “minimal contacts or sporadic and insubstantial contacts by the parent are insufficient to defeat an abandonment petition which is otherwise supported by clear and convincing evidence” (Matter of Michelle S., supra at 801; see Matter of Omar RR., 270 AD2d 588, 590 [2000]), we decline to disturb the determination rendered. In so finding, we recognize that, contrary to respondent’s contentions, petitioner had no responsibility on this termination petition based solely upon abandonment to demonstrate that it made diligent efforts to encourage a meaningful relationship between respondent and Kerrianne (see Social Services Law § 384-b [5] [b]; Matter of Gabrielle HH., supra at 572). Moreover, the record fails to support the claim that visitation was conditioned upon respondent’s participation in counseling or any other programs mandated by Family Court. For all of these reasons, the finding of abandonment was proper (see Matter of Gabrielle HH., supra; Matter of Peter F., supra-, Matter of Omar RR., supra). Mercure, J.P, Spain, Carpinello and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs.
Peters, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Tompkins County (Sherman, J.), entered January 23, 2003, which, inter alia, granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 8, to find respondent in violation of an order of protection. After the commencement of an action for divorce, the parties entered into a stipulation, approved by Family Court, which provided for joint legal custody of their two children, born in 1997 and 1999, but limited respondent’s access to the children. Approximately one month later, petitioner sought an order of protection against respondent by alleging that he committed acts which constituted stalking in the fourth degree and harassment in the second degree. Family Court issued a temporary order of protection that limited respondent’s visitation to eight hours on Sundays and, after a fact-finding hearing, found the allegations established by the requisite proof. At the dispositional hearing, the parties agreed that respondent’s Sunday visitations would be supervised, and a new order of protection was issued. This September 3, 2002 order was allegedly violated three weeks later when respondent was left alone with his own children and the child of his supervisors. Family Court suspended respondent’s visitation pending the fact-finding hearing. The day before such hearing, Family Court advised the parties that it was deferring consideration of a petition propounded by respondent seeking unsupervised visitation. The court also announced that if it found a violation of the order of protection, a dispositional hearing would be held during which respondent’s request for visitation could be considered. Limiting the evidence at the fact-finding hearing solely to whether the violation occurred, Family Court found a violation of the September 3, 2002 order of protection and, without conducting a dispositional hearing, named a new supervisor recommended by respondent and permitted expanded unsupervised visitation, including overnight visitation, upon certain terms and conditions. The court also amended the order of protection to provide for a one-year expiration date as compared to the term set in the earlier order which continued until the younger child’s 18th birthday. This appeal ensued. Findings made by Family Court typically remain undisturbed on appeal unless they are found to lack a sound basis in the record (see Matter of Shaun X., 300 AD2d 772, 773 [2002]; Matter of Simpson v Simrell, 296 AD2d 621, 621 [2002]; Matter of Catherine P., 269 AD2d 702, 703 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 751 [2000]). On issues of visitation, our review is always “tempered ... by the overriding concern for the best interest of the child” {Matter of Simpson v Simrell, supra at 621). Here, we can discern no viable reason for Family Court’s failure to hold a dispositional hearing before making a determination to expand, rather than restrict, the visitation terms contained in the September 3, 2002 order of protection where its violation was established at the fact-finding hearing. Without further commenting on the modifications so made, we note that the court was fully aware that the parties intended to present evidence concerning visitation. Had the hearing been held, the court would have had the opportunity to make an informed judgment not only on the visitation issue but also in its choice of a new supervisor (see Matter of V.C. v H.C., 257 AD2d 27, 33-34 [1999]). Moreover, evidence could have been presented concerning the term of the order (see Family Ct Act § 842; Matter of Alfeo v Alfeo, 306 AD2d 471, 471 [2003]; Matter of Rice v Rice, 280 AD2d 677, 678 [2001]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law, without costs, the September 3, 2003 order is reinstated and matter remitted to the Family Court of Tompkins County for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Crew III, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Franklin County (Main, Jr., J.), entered November 22, 2002, which dismissed petitioner’s applications, in two proceedings pursuant to Family Ct Act article 6, to modify a prior order of custody and to hold respondent in violation of said order. The parties are the parents of a child born in 1990. By order entered in October 2001, and insofar as is relevant to this appeal, Family Court continued sole custody of the child with respondent and awarded one hour of supervised visitation each week to petitioner. Pursuant to the terms of such order, neither party was to “do or say anything, or allow anyone else to do or say anything, that would cause the child to lose the natural love and affection of the other parent.” Thereafter, in September 2002, petitioner filed a modification petition seeking to be awarded joint custody of the child and, one month later, filed a violation petition alleging that respondent had violated the terms of Family Court’s October 2001 order by permitting her spouse, Robert Harrigan, to physically and verbally abuse petitioner in the child’s presence. Family Court summarily dismissed both petitions, prompting this appeal by petitioner. We affirm. Initially, with regard to the petition seeking joint custody, the case law makes clear that “[a] petition to modify an existing custody arrangement must allege facts which, if established, would afford a basis for relief’ (Matter of Bryant-Bosshold v Bosshold, 273 AD2d 717, 718 [2000]; see Matter of Audrey K. v Carolyn L., 294 AD2d 624 [2002]; Matter of Brennan v Anesi, 279 AD2d 840 [2001]). Thus, petitioner bore the burden of setting forth a sufficient evidentiary basis to trigger a hearing (see Matter of Bryant-Bosshold v Bosshold, supra at 718). This he failed to do. The mere fact that petitioner has now recanted his prior allegation that he abused the child and his unsubstantiated assertion that the child was denied counseling to deal with the effects of petitioner’s illness do not establish a sufficient change in circumstances to warrant a change in custody. Simply stated, petitioner has failed to allege, much less demonstrate, how the proposed change in custody would be in the child’s best interest. Under these circumstances, dismissal of the modification petition without a hearing was warranted. As to the violation petition, Harrigan was not a party to Family Court’s October 2001 order and petitioner, who concedes that respondent was not present during most of the allegedly hostile encounters between petitioner and Harrigan, has failed to allege that respondent encouraged or permitted Harrigan to berate petitioner in the fashion alleged. Absent some allegation of wrongdoing on the part of respondent, petitioner failed to demonstrate that any basis exists for finding respondent to be in violation of Family Court’s prior order. Accordingly, we cannot say that Family Court erred in summarily dismissing the violation petition. Cardona, P.J., Feters, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed September 19, 2002, which, upon reconsideration, adhered to its prior decision ruling that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because her employment was terminated due to misconduct. Substantial evidence supports the decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board finding that claimant lost her employment as a manager at a bank due to misconduct. The record establishes that claimant requested that her savings account be closed and the money transferred to her checking account. The following month, claimant learned that the account had not been closed as she requested and charges had been assessed against the account. Although claimant was aware that employees were prohibited from performing transactions on their own accounts, claimant failed to obtain approval from another manager or a supervisor before asking a subordinate to close the account. In order to close the account, it was necessary to reverse the assessed charges. Given claimant’s managerial position and her failure to comply with a known policy of the employer regarding account transactions, we find no reason to disturb the Board’s decision (see Matter of Guerrerio [Commissioner of Labor], 269 AD2d 659 [2000]; Matter of Hartman [Roslyn Sav. Bank—Commissioner of Labor], 257 AD2d 878 [1999]). Claimant’s contention that she was unaware that approval from a supervisor was required presented a credibility issue for the Board to resolve (see Matter of Smith [Commissioner of Labor], 303 AD2d 815 [2003]). Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Peters, Carpinello and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Tompkins County (Rowley, J.), entered August 14, 2002, which granted petitioner’s applications, in two proceedings pursuant to Family Ct Act article 10, to adjudicate respondent’s children to be neglected. Petitioner commenced these neglect proceedings against respondent based on allegations of domestic violence detrimentally impacting the four children in the household, namely, respondent’s biological child and three children for whose care he is responsible. Following a fact-finding hearing, respondent was determined to have neglected the four children. At a subsequent dispositional hearing, respondent’s biological child was placed in the custody of petitioner and the three unrelated children were placed in the custody of their biological father. Respondent appeals. We affirm. Respondent acknowledges that exposing the children to acts of domestic violence will support a finding of neglect if proven by a preponderance of the evidence (see Matter of Eric B., 299 AD2d 754, 755 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 506 [2003]; Matter of Nichole SS., 296 AD2d 618, 619 [2002]; Matter of James MM. v June OO., 294 AD2d 630, 632 [2002]). Respondent’s principal contention is that the finding of neglect is unsupported by any evidence in the record since Family Court improperly relied upon admitted incidents of domestic violence occurring in excess of four years prior to the institution of this proceeding, the most recent events relied upon by petitioner are not, in fact, acts of domestic violence, and the court improperly relied on orders of protection issued in other counties as some evidence of present neglect. While the record does contain evidence of respondent’s past admitted acts of domestic violence which may be characterized as remote in time, the record also contains ample evidence of recent domestic violence impacting the children (see Matter of Nina A.M., 189 AD2d 1010, 1012 [1993]). Respondent challenges Family Court’s assessment of this evidence and its determination that these events constitute detrimental acts of domestic violence which form an adequate basis for a finding of neglect. The resolution by Family Court of the conflicting evidence with respect to these more recent events was based largely on credibility determinations, which are afforded great deference and are affirmed unless manifestly unsupported by the record (see Matter of Mariah CC., 302 AD2d 799, 800 [2003]; Matter of Nichole SS., supra at 619; Matter of Mary Ellen P. v John R. , 278 AD2d 750, 752 [2000]). Here, we find no reason to disturb Family Court’s findings with respect to the evidence that is worthy of credit (see Matter of Kim HH., 239 AD2d 717, 718-719 [1997]). We conclude that the record reveals a pattern of continuing violence by respondent which has placed the children in imminent danger of physical, mental or emotional impairment. Accordingly, Family Court’s finding of neglect is appropriately supported by a preponderance of the evidence. As a final matter, respondent’s failure to object at the fact-finding hearing to the receipt in evidence of orders of protection issued in other counties renders this issue unpreserved for appellate review (see Matter of Gerrod BB., 284 AD2d 584, 586 [2001]). Crew III, J.P, Rose, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Clinton County) to review a determination of respondent which found petitioner guilty of violating certain prison disciplinary rules. Petitioner was found guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rules prohibiting violent conduct, creating a disturbance, interference with a facility employee, harassment, refusing to obey a direct order and threatening violence. According to the misbehavior report and testimony given at the disciplinary hearing, petitioner was attending the Ramadan evening meal held in the facility’s mess hall when he became embroiled in a heated argument with other Muslim inmates. Petitioner lost his temper and began shouting obscenity-filled threats at the group’s Imam (a Muslim religious leader) while menacing him with clenched fists. After initially ignoring the reporting correction officer’s orders to desist, petitioner complied by leaving the immediate area; however, his shouting continued for an additional period of time. The determination of petitioner’s guilt was supported by substantial evidence in the form of the misbehavior report and the testimony given by the correction officer who wrote it, based upon his observation of the entire incident (see Matter of Lynch v Goord, 285 AD2d 878, 879 [2001]). Consistent testimony was given by a correction sergeant who was in the mess hall when the incident took place and by inmate witnesses, including the Imam who was the victim of petitioner’s verbal and threatened physical assault (see Matter of Johnson v Selsky, 271 AD2d 770 [2000]). To the extent that petitioner’s account of the precipitating incident (which he characterizes as a peaceable “Islamic debate”) was at variance with that given by other hearing witnesses, these discrepancies presented issues of credibility for resolution by the Hearing Officer (see Matter of Giles v Selsky, 287 AD2d 829, 830 [2001]). Petitioner’s remaining contentions, including his assertions that alleged procedural errors and irregularities denied him the right to a fair hearing, have been examined and found to be without merit. Crew III, J.P., Peters, Carpinello, Mugglin and Rose, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Albany County) to review a determination of respondent Commissioner of Correctional Services which found petitioner guilty of violating certain prison disciplinary rules. Petitioner was found guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rules prohibiting inmates from participating in demonstrations and refusing to obey direct orders. The charges arose out of an organized inmate demonstration that took place in June 2002 at Five Points Correctional Facility in Seneca County, which included a work stoppage on the part of over 50 inmate food-service workers. The inmates had assembled in the facility’s mess hall where they ignored orders, issued by a correction lieutenant, either to perform their usual work assignments or return to their cells. Fifty-two of the 55 inmates present returned to their cells, following which the facility was locked down. Substantial evidence was presented at petitioner’s disciplinary hearing supporting the determination of his guilt. It included the misbehavior report and the testimony given by four correction officers who witnessed the charged acts of misconduct and the correction lieutenant who issued the direct orders to the inmates (see Matter of Biggs v Goord, 308 AD2d 619 [2003]; Matter of Evans v Rivera, 252 AD2d 706 [1998]). Additional evidence was provided by a surveillance videotape which showed petitioner as one of the group of inmates present in the mess hall who refused the orders. Petitioner testified that although he was present and left with the other 51 inmates, he did not participate in the work stoppage, having been completely ignorant that it was taking place. He further testified that his refusal to obey the direct orders occurred because he had been unable to hear them. These assertions raised issues of credibility that the Hearing Officer was free to resolve against petitioner, based upon substantial evidence to the contrary in the record (see Matter of Harris v Goord, 284 AD2d 841 [2001]; Matter of Mendez v Great Meadow Correctional Facility, 246 AD2d 702 [1998]). The remaining contentions raised by petitioner have been examined and are found to be without merit. Cardona, EJ., Crew III, Peters, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Benza, J), entered August 12, 2002 in Albany County, which, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, granted respondents’ motion to dismiss the proceeding as time-barred. Petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding challenging a determination that petitioner’s brother, who is also a state prison inmate, not be removed from petitioner’s separation list. Respondents moved to dismiss the proceeding as barred by the statute of limitations based on the belief that petitioner was challenging his transfer to another facility in 1993. Supreme Court granted the motion to dismiss and this appeal ensued. Respondents now withdraw their objection to the timeliness of the proceeding inasmuch as a further review of the record establishes that petitioner was in fact challenging a decision issued November 16, 2001 and received by petitioner on November 23, 2001, which continued the separation order of petitioner and his brother. This proceeding was received by the clerk of the court and assigned an index number on or about March 20, 2002, thereby constituting a timely commencement of the proceeding (see Matter of Ardale v Keane, 289 AD2d 661 [2001]). The judgment is therefore reversed and the matter is remitted to Supreme Court to permit respondents to serve an answer within 30 days of this Court’s decision. Cardona, EJ., Mercure, Crew III, Peters and Carpinello, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is reversed, on the law, without costs, and matter remitted to the Supreme Court to permit respondents to serve an answer within 30 days of the date of this Court’s decision.
Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Malone, Jr., J.), entered February 7, 2003 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review a determination of the Director of Temporary Release Programs denying petitioner’s application for participation in a presumptive work release program. Petitioner’s application for participation in a presumptive work release program was denied due, in part, to his criminal history that dates back to 1977 and includes two prior terms of imprisonment in state correctional facilities, arising out of convictions of sodomy in the first degree and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree. Petitioner’s current sentence was imposed upon his conviction of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the fifth degree. Respondents concluded that petitioner’s continued inability to modify his criminal behavior rendered him “unsuitable” for participation-in the program. Supreme Court dismissed petitioner’s subsequent CPLR article 78 proceeding, prompting this appeal. Inasmuch as an inmate’s participation in a temporary release program is a privilege (see Correction Law § 855 [9]), our review of a determination denying an application to participate therein is limited to a consideration of whether the determination “violated any positive statutory requirement or denied a constitutional right of the inmate and whether [it] is affected by irrationality bordering on impropriety” (Matter of Gonzalez v Wilson, 106 AD2d 386, 386-387 [1984]). We find no such violations here. Contrary to petitioner’s contentions, his criminal history was not the sole factor taken into consideration. His accomplishments and positive adjustment to incarceration were specifically noted but were deemed to be outweighed by his recidivism, rendering him a poor risk for temporary release (see Matter of Ramos v Recore, 278 AD2d 775, 775 [2000]). We reject petitioner’s contention that the denial of his application for temporary release constitutes “double jeopardy” as it is additional punishment for a crime for which he has already been punished with incarceration (see Matter of Bockeno v New York State Parole Bd., 227 AD2d 751 [1996]). We conclude that the determination under review was not irrational nor did it violate petitioner’s statutory or constitutional rights. Hence, Supreme Court’s judgment dismissing petitioner’s CPLR article 78 proceeding was appropriate (see Matter of Dixon v Recore, 271 AD2d 778 [2000]). Her cure, J.P, Peters, Carpinello, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of the Supreme Court, entered in Chemung County) to review a determination of respondent Superintendent of Elmira Correctional Facility which found petitioner guilty of violating certain prison disciplinary rules. Following a tier II disciplinary hearing, petitioner was found guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rules prohibiting inmates from interfering with an employee, harassment, refusing a direct order and refusing to submit to a frisk. As related in the misbehavior report, petitioner was leaving the facility’s recreation yard when a correction officer gave him a direct order to proceed to the frisk area. Petitioner responded by addressing an obscene remark to the officer. He then refused to comply with orders to place his hands on the fence so that he could be frisked. Substantial evidence of petitioner’s guilt was presented at his disciplinary hearing in the form of the misbehavior report and the testimony given by the correction officer who prepared the report based upon his observation of and participation in the incident, as well as by the testimony of a second officer who was required to assist the reporting officer in subduing petitioner (see Matter of Vasquez v Goord, 301 AD2d 986 [2003]; Matter of Burr v Goord, 284 AD2d 778 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 601 [2001]). Any inconsistencies present in the hearing testimony created credibility issues for resolution by the Hearing Officer (see Matter of Wai Ng v Goord, 285 AD2d 791 [2001], appeal dismissed and lv denied 97 NY2d 671 [2001]). We reject petitioner’s contention that the entry of an incorrect date on the hearing disposition form indicates that the Hearing Officer had prejudged his guilt. As petitioner failed to raise this issue in his administrative appeal, it has not been preserved for our review (see Matter of Hunt v Goord, 252 AD2d 982, 982 [1998]). In any event, were we to consider it, we would be unpersuaded. The correct decision date of the hearing is accurately listed on several other documents relating to this matter. It is apparent that this clerical error had no prejudicial impact upon the outcome of petitioner’s case nor does it indicate that petitioner’s hearing was conducted in other than a fair and impartial manner (see Matter of Samuel v Goord, 277 AD2d 584, 585 [2000]). The remaining issues raised by petitioner have been examined and found to be without merit. Cardona, P.J., Mercure, Crew III, Peters and Spain, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is confirmed, without costs, and petition dismissed.
Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Canfield, J.), entered September 4, 2002 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review a determination of the Commissioner of Correctional Services finding petitioner guilty of violating a prison disciplinary rule. Petitioner challenges a determination finding him guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rule prohibiting inmates from the unauthorized possession of a controlled substance. The misbehavior report relates that a frisk of petitioner disclosed a powdered substance, subsequently identified as brown heroin, hidden in his sock. Substantial evidence' of petitioner’s guilt was presented at his disciplinary hearing in the form of the misbehavior report, the positive laboratory test results and the hearing testimony given by the correction officer who authored the misbehavior report based upon his discovery of the contraband (see Matter of Smith v Selsky, 294 AD2d 629 [2002]). Additional evidence was provided by the testimony of the correction sergeant who had ordered the frisk. On this appeal, petitioner contends that it was error to deny his request to present the hearing testimony of a third correction officer. The record reveals that this officer was not present at the time the controlled substance was discovered and that his testimony was properly excluded as irrelevant to the issue of petitioner’s guilt or innocence (see Matter of Santana v Senkowski, 269 AD2d 638 [2000]). Petitioner further objects to the absence of testimony from a certain inmate witness; however, petitioner failed to affirmatively request this inmate as a witness at the hearing. Accordingly, the lack of his testimony cannot be construed as an error on the part of the Hearing Officer (see Matter of Alejandro v Goord, 278 AD2d 731 [2000]). The remaining issues raised by petitioner have been examined and found to be without merit. Mercure, J.P, Spain, Carpinello, Mugglin and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Stein, J.), entered March 17, 2003 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review a determination of the Board of Parole imposing certain conditions upon petitioner’s parole release. Petitioner has reached his conditional release date following his conviction of various crimes, including sodomy in the first, second and third degrees, sexual abuse in the first degree and endangering the welfare of a child. His criminal history, which dates back to 1962, also includes a 1971 arrest in New Jersey for narcotics possession and debauching the morals of a minor. Petitioner continues to be incarcerated based upon his refusal to agree to certain special conditions placed upon his parole release, i.e., the conditions investing his parole officer with the authority to direct petitioner to participate in substance or alcohol abuse treatment programs. Petitioner challenges these conditions as arbitrary and capricious as his record shows no indication that he is in need of such treatment. The imposition of a special condition upon the release of an inmate is discretionary in nature and beyond judicial review so long as it is made in accordance with law (see Executive Law § 259-i; 9 NYCRR 8003.2; see also Matter of Dickman v Trietley, 268 AD2d 914, 915 [2000]). This Court is not permitted to substitute its discretion for that of the individuals in charge of designing the terms of petitioner’s parole release (see Matter of M.G. v Travis, 236 AD2d 163, 169 [1997], lv denied 91 NY2d 814 [1998]; Matter of Gerena v Rodriguez, 192 AD2d 606 [1993]) and we would not, in any event, be disposed to do so in this matter. The conditions in question are not arbitrary or capricious in view of petitioner’s record (which includes a charge of narcotics possession). Under the circumstances presented here, it is reasonable to invest petitioner’s parole officer with the authority to mandate treatment for petitioner’s use of alcohol or controlled substances (as needed), given the difficulty that petitioner has previously exhibited in controlling his impulses toward obtaining sexual gratification from children (see Matter of Wright v Travis, 297 AD2d 842 [2002]). The remaining issues raised herein have been reviewed and found to be without merit. Spain, J.P., Mugglin, Rose, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Cardona, EJ. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Spargo, J.), entered June 14, 2002 in Albany County, which, in a proceeding pursuant to CFLR article 78; dismissed the petition for failure to exhaust administrative remedies. On December 21, 1999, respondent National Finance Corporation (hereinafter NFC), a national mortgage loan processing firm, closed its office in the Town of Clifton Dark, Saratoga County. Thereafter, a number of NFC employees filed claims with the Department of Labor (hereinafter DOL), alleging that NFC failed to pay them a portion of their December 1999 wages and certain wage supplements (see Labor Law § 196-a). In October 2000, petitioner issued two orders to comply based upon a determination by the DOL that NFC failed to pay certain wages and wage supplements to 35 employees. Due to NFC’s failure to provide adequate information about these claims, the amounts in the orders were based almost exclusively on the employees’ sworn claims. In December 2000, NFC petitioned respondent Industrial Board of Appeals (hereinafter IBA) for review of the “validity or reasonableness” of the two orders as provided in Labor Law § 101 (see 12 NYCRR part 66), which NFC claimed were, inter alia, “overstated” by the DOL. NFC provided additional documentary information as to the claims which was not previously available to the DOL. The DOL reviewed the new information, reduced the original numbers in its orders and gave NFC the revised figures and computation sheets at an IBA prehearing conference in March 2001. The DOL did not issue formal amended compliance orders. In the meantime, while it initially appeared that NFC would participate in the IBA hearing, the record establishes that NFC was placed under the supervision of an interim bankruptcy trustee in April 2001 and a determination was made that NFC would not appear. At the hearing, the sole witnesses were two DOL employees. The IBA issued a decision dated November 28, 2001, which, as requested by the DOL, utilized the revised figures presented by the DOL in March 2001 (as corrected by the DOL at the hearing) instead of the figures contained in the original October 2000 compliance orders. The IBA found that the evidence presented supported the orders under review and the imposition of interest and civil penalties. However, the IBA modified and/or revoked several of the individual amounts due. In January 2002, petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding claiming, inter alia, that the IBA’s determination was not supported by substantial evidence. Following joinder of issue, Supreme Court dismissed the petition based upon the IBA’s objection in point of law alleging that petitioner failed to exhaust all administrative remedies prior to the commencement of this proceeding. Initially, we agree with petitioner’s argument that this proceeding was improperly dismissed on the ground of failure to exhaust administrative remedies. Supreme Court premised its decision upon petitioner’s failure, following issuance of the IBA’s November 2001 decision, to make an optional application for reconsideration pursuant to 12 NYCRR 65.41. However, a decision of the IBA, which must be issued in a timely fashion (see 12 NYCRR 65.39), is “final except that such decision shall be subject to appeal by an aggrieved party in a [CPLR article 78 proceeding], if such proceeding is commenced within sixty days after the decision is issued” (Labor Law § 102 [1] [emphasis added]; see 12 NYCRR 65.40). Notably, “the discretionary power to rehear or reopen matters which exists in nearly all administrative agencies, is not sufficient to render an otherwise final order nonfinal” (Matter of Seidner v Town of Colonie, 79 AD2d 751, 752 [1980], affd 55 NY2d 613 [1981]). Here, inasmuch as 12 NYCRR 65.41 does not provide “an automatic right to review [or] a mandatory right to a rehearing” (Matter of Miller v Ambach, 124 AD2d 882, 883 [1986]; see e.g. Matter of Hicks v Fogg, 79 AD2d 258 [1981]), we cannot agree that petitioner’s failure to request discretionary reconsideration precluded her from commencing this proceeding. Even though we have determined that this proceeding is not barred for failure to exhaust all administrative remedies, it is unnecessary to remit the matter to Supreme Court since, given the presence of a substantial evidence question and the absence of a dispositive objection in point of law, the proper procedure would be transfer to this Court in any event (see CPLR 7804 [g]). Therefore, turning to the merits, we note at the outset that “[i]t is within the IBA’s authority to revoke orders of compliance and civil penalties issued by petitioner” (Matter of Hudacs v Village of Watkins Glen, 208 AD2d 181, 183 [1995]; see Matter of Roberts v Industrial Bd. of Appeals, 106 AD2d 777, 778 [1984]). Additionally, “[i]f the [IBA] finds that the . . . order, or any part thereof, is invalid or unreasonable it shall revoke, amend or modify the same” (Labor Law § 101 [3]). Judicial review of the IBA’s determination “is limited to determining whether the record contains substantial evidence to support the IBA’s decision” (Matter of Hudacs v Village of Watkins Glen, supra at 183). Here, petitioner’s initial contention that the IBA improperly considered issues outside the scope of NFC’s petition lacks merit. Given the unusual circumstances herein, including the facts surrounding NFC’s nonparticipation in the proceedings, it is not surprising that the December 2000 petition challenging the October 2000 compliance orders does not specifically reference every aspect of the matters addressed in petitioner’s March 2001 revisions. Notably, while the DOL’s counsel specifically requested that the list of modified figures be considered revisions to the original orders when they were introduced into evidence at the hearing, it appears that no formal request of that nature was done earlier. Under the circumstances, we find that NFC’s petition alleging that petitioner “grossly overstated the amount due and owing to the stated employees” adequately establishes that it was objecting to petitioner’s calculations, including the imposition of penalties and interest, as invalid and unreasonable. Turning to petitioner’s challenge to the IBA’s determination of the individual amounts due the employees, we note that the DOL conceded at the commencement of the hearing that the amounts listed in the original October 2000 compliance orders were incorrect and would require modification. In its decision, the IBA specifically utilized the DOL’s revised March 2001 figures as a starting point in each case. With respect to 14 of the 35 employees, the IBA agreed with the DOL’s revised figures and petitioner does not challenge the order as to these findings. Additionally, petitioner does not dispute the IBA’s resolution of another five employee claims where the DOL did not dispute the IBA’s reasoning in modifying or revoking the disputed orders. As to the remaining claims, while the IBA possessed the authority to modify petitioner’s compliance orders (see generally Matter of McGowan v Guy, 304 AD2d 666 [2003]), we agree with petitioner that certain determinations as to the individual amounts due some of the employees lack sufficient support in the record. Specifically, with respect to nine of the employees, the IBA reduced their wage or wage supplement claims in situations where NFC did not submit proof contradicting the claims made by its employees. While the IBA justified these conclusions by noting that they were not supported by “credible proof,” it cannot be forgotten that Labor Law § 196-a provides that an employer with inadequate records “shall bear the burden of proving that the complaining employee was paid.” Similarly, 12 NYCRR 65.30 states that “[t]he burden of proof of every allegation . . . shall be upon the person asserting it.” Thus, the burden of disproving the amounts sought in the employee claims fell to NFC, not the employees, and its failure in providing that information, regardless of the reason therefor, should not shift the burden to the employees. Accordingly, we conclude that the IBA’s determination should be modified as described herein. The remaining issues raised by the parties and not specifically addressed herein have been examined and found to be unpersuasive. Crew III, Peters, Carpinello and Mugglin, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law, without costs, by reversing Supreme Court’s dismissal of the petition on the ground of failure to exhaust administrative remedies and petition treated as one transferred to this Court for de novo review. Adjudged that the determination is modified, without costs, by annulling so much thereof as modified and/or revoked the wage or supplemental wage orders detailed in this decision; matter remitted to respondent Industrial Board of Appeals for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision; and, as so modified, confirmed. . NFC declined to further participate in any of the proceedings, including this appeal. . As relevant, the regulation states: “(a) Application for reconsideration after a determination made by the [IBA] shall be in writing, and shall state specifically the grounds upon which the application is based. When any determination, resolution, requirement or order of the [IBA] is sought to be reversed, modified, changed, rescinded or terminated on account of facts or circumstances arising subsequent to a hearing or on account of consequences resulting from compliance with such deter mination, resolution, requirement or order, which are claimed to justify a reconsideration of the proceeding, the matters relied upon by the applicant shall be set forth fully. “(b) . . .If any party to the proceeding wishes to oppose the granting of a request for reconsideration, such party must file, within 10 days from the receipt of a copy of the application, a statement setting forth the reasons why it is believed such a request should not be granted. “(c) The [IBA], at any time, may reopen a proceeding or require a rehearing” (12 NYCRR 65.41 [a]-[c]). . For example, we cannot say that substantial evidence does not support the IBA’s determination with respect to the claims of employees Ann Naylor and Casey Peregrim. . Specifically, Thomas Answorth was denied a claim for vacation pay in the amount of $576.92 despite the lack of contradictory proof from NFC. No proof was submitted supporting a denial of payment to Layi Dandles for one personal day. Aice Anderson claimed that she was not paid for 10 commissions of $550 each. While NFC proof disputes the tenth claim, the first nine are basically unopposed, amounting to $4,950 due. Daniel Forgett claimed $400 in bonus payments which is reflected on a time sheet signed by his manager; no substantive proof was submitted supporting denial. The IBA improperly reduced Ann Luse’s wage order by $74.18 despite uncontradicted hearing testimony that this amount was compensation for work performed in an unrelated pay period. John Nazarian’s claims for $116 in bonus payments and $47 for an unpaid medical bill were denied despite lack of proof from NFC to dispute them. Michael Pallozzi’s claim for $62 in bonus payments was uncontradicted by NFC’s proof and, therefore, the denial was unsupported. Melissa Schulz’s wage order was reduced by $135.38 so as to deny her claim for “comp” time despite absence of proof from NFC disputing the claim. Finally, although the IBA denied Christopher Welfley’s claim for $1,000 in commissions, NFC did not submit any proof that could be construed as disputing the claim. As for Wellfley’s claim for $200 in “blue dot” bonuses earned within the period of “1/1/99—12/31/99,” we note that although NFC’s proof indicates that they were not earned between December 5, 1999 to December 18, 1999, there is nothing that disputes the remaining time period alleged by the employee.
Spain, J. Appeal from a decision of the Workers’ Compensation Board, filed October 3, 2002, which, inter alia, ruled that claimant suffered a compensable occupational disease. From 1983 until 2001, claimant worked for United Parcel Service (hereinafter the employer) as a delivery truck driver. He filed a claim for workers’ compensation benefits after he was diagnosed with interstitial pulmonary fibrosis allegedly due to his exposure to dust and various other airborne substances while on the job. The employer’s workers’ compensation carrier controverted the claim on the basis that claimant’s disability was not causally related. Following various hearings, a Workers’ Compensation Law Judge, among other things, established the case for notice, causal relationship and occupational disease, and found claimant to be permanently partially disabled. The Workers’ Compensation Board upheld the findings in this regard and this appeal by the employer and its carrier ensued. We reverse. Workers’ Compensation Law § 2 (15) defines an occupational disease as “a disease resulting from the nature of employment and contracted therein.” More specifically, “[a]n occupational disease is a condition which derives from the very nature of the employment and not from an environmental condition specific to the place of work” (Matter of Bates v Marine Midland Bank, 256 AD2d 948, 948 [1998]; see Matter of Mack v County of Rockland, 71 NY2d 1008, 1009 [1988]; Matter of Goldberg v 954 Marcy Corp., 276 NY 313, 318-319 [1938]). In order to obtain workers’ compensation benefits based upon an occupational disease, the claimant must “establish a ‘recognizable link’ between his condition and a distinctive feature of his occupation” (Matter of Bates v Marine Midland Bank, supra at 949). Here, claimant has not demonstrated that his lung condition is attributable to a distinctive feature of his job as a delivery truck driver. Rather, his affliction appears to have been a result of the specific environment in which he worked. Claimant testified that he was exposed to dust and dirt while inside his delivery vehicle by virtue of the openings on each side and the rear door, which did not completely close and created, in effect, a vacuum. He also stated that he sometimes made deliveries to industrial facilities, such as sheet metal plants and body shops, where he was exposed to dust and other airborne irritants. His physician testified that a lung biopsy revealed the presence of iron and dust particles in claimant’s lung leading to his diagnosis of interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and that this condition was consistent with the exposure, as related to him by claimant, to dust and other airborne irritants at work. He acknowledged, however, that he did not know the duration of the exposure causing this condition and that it was unusual for a delivery truck driver, and did not identify the precise agent producing the condition. Absent any link between claimant’s condition and a distinctive feature of the job itself, as opposed to the vehicle out of which he worked or the places to which he made deliveries, we find that substantial evidence supporting a case for occupational disease was not established (see Matter of Mack v County of Rockland, supra at 1009; Matter of Bates v Marine Midland Bank, supra at 949; Matter of Bryant v City of New York, 252 AD2d 777, 777-778 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 813 [1998]; Matter of Dando v Binghamton Bd. of Educ., 111 AD2d 1060, 1061 [1985]). Nevertheless, because claimant also raised the issue of accidental injury, the matter must be remitted to the Board to consider this issue (see Matter of Martin v Fulton City School Dist., 300 AD2d 901, 902 [2002]). Mercure, J.P, Feters, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is reversed, without costs, and matter remitted to the Workers’ Compensation Board for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision.
Kane, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Moynihan, Jr., J.), entered April 21, 2003 in Washington County, which granted plaintiffs motion for a preliminary injunction. In June 1998, plaintiff, an equine veterinary clinic, hired defendant as an equine veterinarian. The parties signed a one-year employment contract drafted by plaintiff’s president containing a restrictive covenant, in which defendant agreed not to compete with plaintiff within 35 miles of plaintiffs clinic for three years following termination. Subsequent similar one-year agreements, each containing a restrictive covenant but adding that defendant was not to use plaintiffs client information without permission, were signed in 1999 and 2000. Each annual contract also contained a salary increase. In June 2001, plaintiff presented another contract, which defendant did not sign. Defendant continued to work for plaintiff and was paid the increased salary quoted in the unsigned 2001 contract. In June 2002, plaintiff’s president informed defendant that her contract was not being renewed, but extended her employment for a few months to discuss permitting defendant to buy out part of plaintiffs business or buy out of the restrictive covenant. No buy-out agreement was reached. After defendant left plaintiffs employ, she established her own equine veterinary practice in which she drove to clients’ homes but was based out of her own home, located five miles from plaintiffs clinic. Defendant is admittedly servicing clients she serviced while employed by plaintiff. Plaintiff commenced this action seeking, among other things, to enjoin defendant from violating the restrictive covenant. Supreme Court granted plaintiffs request for a preliminary injunction preventing defendant from practicing equine veterinary medicine within 35 miles of plaintiffs clinic, from providing services to any of plaintiff’s former clients in any location, and from utilizing plaintiffs confidential client information for any purpose. Defendant appeals. We affirm the grant of a preliminary injunction, but modify its terms. The party seeking a preliminary injunction must demonstrate a likelihood of success on the merits, irreparable injury if temporary relief is not granted, and that a balancing of the equities favors the movant (see Doe v Axelrod, 73 NY2d 748, 750 [1988]; Marietta Corp. v Fairhurst, 301 AD2d 734, 736 [2003]). Plaintiff has shown a likelihood of success on the merits. Covenants not to compete will be enforced if reasonably limited as to time, geographic area and scope, are necessary to protect the employer’s interests, not harmful to the public, and not unduly burdensome (see Gelder Med. Group v Webber, 41 NY2d 680, 683 [1977]; Albany Med. Coll. v Lobel, 296 AD2d 701, 702 [2002]). Whether or not defendant is bound by the terms of the 2001 contract that she did not sign, she is unquestionably bound by the 2000 contract that contained the restrictive covenant. She signed that document and received consideration in exchange for abiding by its terms. A three-year period is reasonable, as is the 35-mile restriction, which is narrower than plaintiffs service area (see Gelder Med. Group v Webber, supra [five years and 30 miles]; Karpinski v Ingrasci, 28 NY2d 45 [1971] [five counties forever]; Albany Med. Coll. v Lobel, supra [five years and 30 miles]). The scope is similarly reasonable as the covenant only prohibits the practice of equine veterinary medicine, not all veterinary medicine (see Karpinski v Ingrasci, supra at 49-52 [covenant modified to enjoin only oral surgery, not general dentistry]). The covenant is necessary to protect plaintiffs interests, as plaintiff will otherwise lose clients it gained after years of hard work. It is not unduly burdensome to defendant, as she can practice general veterinary medicine anywhere or her specialty outside the proscribed area. “A covenant against competition must be construed strictly and should not be extended beyond the literal meaning of its terms” (DeCapua v Dine-A-Mate, 292 AD2d 489, 492 [2002] [citations omitted]). Ambiguous terms will be resolved against the contract drafter (see Matter of Saranac Cent. School Dish [Sweet Assoc.], 253 AD2d 566, 567 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 820 [1999]). The covenant here mentions the potential damage if a terminated employee is permitted to provide services to plaintiffs clients. Although it appears that plaintiff intended to prevent defendant from servicing all of its former clients regardless of their location, construing the provision’s language as expressly written, it does not prohibit defendant from providing services outside the 35-mile area, even to plaintiff’s former clients. Thus, the preliminary injunction issued by Supreme Court should be modified by removing the prohibition on servicing plaintiffs clients outside the 35-mile area. For the issuance of a preliminary injunction, plaintiff failed to adequately demonstrate that defendant improperly appropriated its customer list or used confidential client information. Such lists are generally not considered confidential unless information contained therein is not known in the trade and discoverable only through extraordinary efforts (see H. Meer Dental Supply Co. v Commisso, 269 AD2d 662, 664 [2000]; Empire Farm Credit v Bailey, 239 AD2d 855, 856 [1997]). Despite its allegations, plaintiff failed to prove that its customer list information was not ascertainable through public sources, such as horse shows, breeders’ associations, signs on houses and barns, or even the phone book. While a physical taking or studied copying of the employer’s client information may result in a court enjoining solicitation based not on a trade secret violation but as an egregious breach of trust and confidence (see Silfen, Inc. v Cream, 29 NY2d 387, 391-392 [1972]), on this motion plaintiff failed to prove its allegation that defendant took a handwritten customer list before her employment was terminated. Irreparable injury may be shown through a loss of patients in a medical specialty, permanent loss of revenues from those patients or clients, and loss of referral business usually garnered from clients (see Albany Med. Coll. v Lobel, supra at 703; Bollengier v Gulati, 233 AD2d 721, 722 [1996]). Loss of goodwill associated with a business, which is difficult to quantify, can constitute irreparable injury even if monetary damages, as well as injunctive relief, are requested (see Frank May Assoc. v Boughton, 281 AD2d 673, 674 [2001]). Defendant’s operation within 35 miles of plaintiff’s clinic in the unique specialty of equine veterinary services is causing plaintiff irreparable injury. The equities balance in plaintiffs favor. Plaintiff spent over 20 years building its business, while defendant had no contacts in the area except those developed through employment with plaintiff. Defendant is not being deprived of her livelihood, as she is free to practice equine veterinary medicine outside the 35-mile area, or any other type of veterinary medicine in any location (compare Karpinski v Ingrasci, supra at 49-52; Bollengier v Gulati, supra at 722-723). Finally, we find without merit defendant’s arguments regarding the employment agreement being an adhesion contract, the applicability of a factually different trial court matter involving the same plaintiff, and plaintiffs alleged waiver of its right to enforce the restrictive covenant. Cardona, P.J., Peters and Carpinello, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is modified, on the facts, without costs, by deleting those portions of the preliminary injunction which prohibit defendant from servicing plaintiff’s clients outside the 35-mile area and prohibit defendant’s use of plaintiffs client information; and, as so modified, affirmed. . The 2000 agreement’s covenant stated: “The parties agree that the Employer’s business is local in scope and that the Employer would suffer serious damage and loss of goodwill if upon termination of this agreement, the Employee competed with the Employer by providing veterinary services for the clients who are currently clients of the Employer. The Employee, therefore, agrees that for a period of three years after the end of their employment, they will not within 35 miles of the Employer’s current business address [be connected in any way with] any business similar to the type of equine veterinary practice conducted by the Employer . . . . It is also agreed that the client list and client information are confidential and the property of the employer and may not be used for any purpose without the permission of the employer.” . We do not decide when the covenant began to run, as that will ultimately be determined by Supreme Court. Regardless of the beginning time, the three-year period has not yet expired.
Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (McNamara, J.), entered May 6, 2003 in Albany County, which dismissed petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78, to review a determination of the Board of Parole denying petitioner’s request for parole release. Petitioner is serving prison sentences resulting from his 1989 conviction of the crimes of manslaughter in the first degree, attempted manslaughter in the first degree and assault in the second degree (see People v Angel, 185 AD2d 356 [1992]). The judgment of conviction arose out of an incident wherein petitioner fatally stabbed his girlfriend’s mother after having stabbed his girlfriend numerous times in the presence of her children. Petitioner appeared before the Board of Parole in November 2001, following which his application for parole release was denied. This CPLR article 78 proceeding ensued. Supreme Court dismissed the petition, prompting this appeal. Determinations of the Board of Parole are not subject to review so long as they comply with the applicable statutory requirements (see Executive Law § 259-i [5]; see also Matter of Bramble v New York State Bd. of Parole, 307 AD2d 463 [2003]). “Judicial intervention is warranted only when there is a ‘showing of irrationality bordering on impropriety’ ” (Matter of Silmon u Travis, 95 NY2d 470, 476 [2000], quoting Matter of Russo, 50 NY2d 69, 77 [1980]). Such a showing has not been made here. It is apparent from a review of the record that the relevant statutory requirements were considered in this matter, with emphasis placed upon the violent nature of petitioner’s crime and his “blatant disregard” for human life (see Matter of Lue-Shing v Pataki, 301 AD2d 827, 828 [2003], lv denied 99 NY2d 511 [2003]). It should be noted that although the Board articulated the most compelling factors influencing its decision, it was under no obligation to discuss every factor it considered (see Matter of Strickland v New York State Div. of Parole, 275 AD2d 830, 831 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 768 [2000]). Petitioner’s remaining arguments have been considered and found to be lacking in merit. Cardona, PJ., Crew III, Mugglin, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is affirmed, without costs.
Spain, J. Cross appeals from an order of the Supreme Court (Kavanagh, J.), entered January 6, 2003 in Ulster County, which, inter alia, granted a motion by defendant Thomas J. Feeney Enterprises, Inc. for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it and partially granted the remaining defendants’ cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against them. Plaintiff commenced this action to recover for injuries allegedly sustained while employed as a “trimmer” on a barge owned by defendants Lone Star Industries, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries (hereinafter the Lone Star defendants). The Lone Star defendants utilize approximately 100 barges to transport crushed limestone from a quarry located on the eastern shore of the Hudson River. Plaintiff was injured on October 22, 1996 when he fell on loose stone while traversing the deck of “Barge 38.” In his complaint, plaintiff seeks to recover for the negligence of the Lone Star defendants under the Jones Act (46 USC Appendix § 688) and as the owners of the barge under principles of general maritime law. He also states a cause of action against defendant Thomas J. Feeney Enterprises, Inc. (hereinafter Feeney), claiming that Feeney had a service contract with the Lone Star defendants and negligently failed to repair and maintain the deck of the barge where plaintiff was injured. Feeney moved for summary judgment, as did the Lone Star defendants. Plaintiff moved for partial summary judgment to establish liability on the part of the Lone Star defendants. Supreme Court partially granted the Lone Star defendants’ cross motion, finding that plaintiff was not a “seaman” entitled to compensation under the Jones Act, but that questions of fact existed as to whether the Lone Star defendants, as the owners of the barge, were negligent in maintaining the barge. Supreme Court also granted Feeney’s motion for summary judgment inasmuch as it concluded, as a matter of law, that Feeney owed no duty to plaintiff. Plaintiff appeals and the Lone Star defendants cross-appeal. First, we examine plaintiffs contention that he is a seaman under the Jones Act and, therefore, that the Lone Star defendants were not entitled to summary judgment. The Jones Act extends a cause of action to seamen injured in the course of their employment (see 46 USC Appendix § 688 [a]), but does not define the term “seaman.” A long history of case law, however, establishes that to be a seaman under the Jones Act, plaintiff must satisfy a two-pronged test. “First, an employee’s duties must contribut[e] to the function of the vessel or to the accomplishment of its mission” (Caputo v Clean Harbors, 218 AD2d 924, 925 [1995] [internal quotation marks and citations omitted]; see Chandris, Inc. v Latsis, 515 US 347, 368 [1995]). “Additionally, ‘a seaman must have a connection to a vessel in navigation (or to an identifiable group of such vessels) that is substantial in terms of both its duration and its nature’ ” (Caputo v Clean Harbors, supra at 925, quoting Chandris, Inc. v Latsis, supra at 368). “The seaman inquiry is a mixed question of law and fact, and it often will be inappropriate to take the question from the jury. Nevertheless, ‘summary judgment or a directed verdict is mandated where the facts and the law will reasonably support only one conclusion’ ” (Harbor Tug & Barge Co. v Papai, 520 US 548, 554 [1997], quoting McDermott Intl. v Wilander, 498 US 337, 356 [1991]). Hence, even where the pertinent facts are largely undisputed, the issue must be left for the trier of fact unless the application of the proper legal standards to the facts presented will reasonably support but one conclusion (compare Offshore Co. v Robison, 266 F2d 769, 781 [5th Cir 1959], and Buccellato v City of New York, 808 F Supp 967, 970 [ED NY 1992], with Sologub v City of New York, 202 F3d 175, 178 [2d Cir 2000]). Noting that plaintiff did not possess seamanship papers, that he was a member of a labor union rather than a seaman’s union and finding that he was a land-based employee with minimal contacts to the water, Supreme Court concluded that a jury could only reach the conclusion that plaintiff was not a seaman and, thus, granted summary judgment. Because, in our view, the facts could support a different conclusion, we reverse the summary judgment award to the Lone Star defendants. According to plaintiffs testimony, the empty barges, which are not self-propelled, are moved to shore and into position at a loading dock by a push boat. Trimmers waiting at the dock apply steel winch cables around the barge and then board the barge and secure lines used to stabilize it during loading and to keep it close to the dock. Crushed stone is then loaded onto the barge from a conveyor belt-fed chute while the trimmers level the stone with rakes as it falls into the well, or cargo box, of the barge. The trimmers also assist in changing and adjusting the running lines as the barge tilts (while taking on weight) and guide the winch operator—using hand signals—as the barge is gradually pulled by the winch along the loading dock so that the chute uniformly loads the barge from front to back. When each barge is filled, the trimmers remove the winch cables and release the lines allowing the barge to float freely, and they remain aboard as a push boat engages the barge and moves it some 50 to 100 yards to a nesting area where other filled barges are stockpiled awaiting delivery to customers. The trimmers tie the loaded barge to the others using lines and, once the barge is secured, they return to shore by riding the push boat or leaping from barge to barge to a ladder leading to the dock. During the loading process trimmers work in two rotating teams. While one team is working on a barge being loaded, the other team may be riding a loaded barge to the nesting area, returning to the shore, waiting for an empty barge at the dock, assisting other employees in other job areas or having breakfast or lunch. Trimmers are engaged in the loading process 10 months during the year (early March to late December) and, during this seasonal period, they work 12 to 16-hour shifts often six or seven days a week. During the off-season, trimmers work on shore doing maintenance and repair. Occasionally, the loading process is also shut down during the loading season for repair and maintenance. Plaintiff estimates that, during the loading season, he spent approximately nine out of 12 hours of each workday actually on board these moving barges. Based on the foregoing, a factfinder could rationally conclude that plaintiff was “perform [ing] the work of a vessel” (McDermott Intl. v Wilander, supra at 355), that he had connection to an identifiable group of vessels in navigation which was “substantial in terms of both its duration and its nature” (Chandris, Inc. v Latsis, supra at 368; see Mach v Pennsylvania R.R. Co., 317 F2d 761, 763-764 [3rd Cir 1963]; Leotis v City of New York, 818 F Supp 63, 64 [SD NY 1993]; Buccellato v City of New York, supra at 971-972; see also Gaines v Gulfcoast Tr. Co., 1996 WL 334430, *1-4, 1996 US Dist LEXIS 8787, *1-13 [ED La 1996]), and that he has more than “a transitory or sporadic connection to a vessel in navigation” (Chandris, Inc. v Latsis, supra at 368). On the other hand, plaintiff was a member of a laborers’ union, went home at the end of every shift, did not spend his entire day nor eat his meals on a barge, did not travel any great distance on the barges and did not operate the machinery or any vessel actually used to navigate the barge. Accordingly, we cannot agree with plaintiff that, as a matter of law, judgment is appropriate against the Lone Star defendants (see O’Hara v Weeks Mar., 294 F3d 55, 64 [2d Cir 2002]; Burns v Anchor-Wate Co., 469 F2d 730, 732-733 [5th Cir 1972]; Caputo v Clean Harbors, 218 AD2d 924, 925-926 [1995], supra). Under the facts of this case, the question of whether plaintiff qualifies as a seaman under the Jones Act must be resolved by a jury (see Buccellato v City of New York, supra). Next, we conclude that Supreme Court properly denied summary judgment to the Lone Star defendants with respect to plaintiff’s claim that the Lone Star defendants are liable for negligence as the owners of the vessel on which he was injured. If plaintiff is found to be a longshoreman rather than a seaman, he may assert a cause of action against the owner of the vessel on which he was injured—even where, as here, the owner and his employer are one and the same (see 33 USC § 905 [b]; Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. v Pfeifer, 462 US 523, 530-532 [1983]; O’Hara v Weeks Mar., supra at 62). As vessel owners, the Lone Star defendants have a duty to, at a minimum, “exercis[e] ordinary care under the circumstances” in maintaining the vessel such that “an expert and experienced stevedore will be able by the exercise of reasonable care to carry on its cargo operations with reasonable safety” (Scindia Steam Nav. v De Los Santos, 451 US 156, 166-167 [1981]; see Gravatt v City of New York, 226 F3d 108, 119-121 [2d Cir 2000], cert denied 532 US 957 [2001]). Plaintiff submitted expert testimony opining that the deck surface was not painted with nonskid paint and had become covered with an accumulation of stone, creating a dangerous condition. Based on these alleged conditions, plaintiff also asserts violations of certain safety regulations (see 29 CFR 1918.91 [a], [b]; Lieggi v Maritime Co. of Philippines, 667 F2d 324, 328 n 8 [2d Cir 1981]). Under these circumstances, Supreme Court correctly determined that, should plaintiff be determined to be a longshoreman, a material issue of fact exists as to whether the Lone Star defendants, as the owners of Barge 38, breached their duty owed to him. Finally, we reject plaintiffs contention that Supreme Court erred in granting summary judgment to Feeney. The undisputed evidence on this issue demonstrates that although Feeney was hired by the Lone Star defendants to make specific repairs to the barges—including cleaning the decks—Feeney performed these tasks based on individual work orders rather than pursuant to any continuing service contract with any of the Lone Star defendants. Indeed, plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that Feeney owed him—a third-party to any contractual relationship between Feeney and the Lone Star defendants—a duty of any kind (see Espinal v Melville Snow Contrs., 98 NY2d 136, 138 [2002]). Inasmuch as “[i]t is well established that before a defendant may be held hable for negligence it must be shown that the defendant owes a duty to the plaintiff’ (Pulka v Edelman, 40 NY2d 781, 782 [1976]), Supreme Court properly granted summary judgment to Feeney. Crew III, J.P., Mugglin, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as partially granted the cross motion of defendants Lone Star Industries, Inc., New York Trap Rock Corporation, New York Trap Rock Company and NYTR Transportation Corporation for summary judgment; said cross motion denied in its entirety; and, as so modified, affirmed. At this juncture, the parties do not dispute that Barge 38 qualifies as a “vessel” under the Jones Act (see Mach v Pennsylvania R.R. Co., 317 F2d 761, 763 [3d Cir 1963]; cf. Orr v City of New York, 304 AD2d 541, 542 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 508 [2003]).
Mercure, J. Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Hughes, J.H.O.), entered August 7, 2002 in Schoharie County, which, inter alia, ordered equitable distribution of the parties’ marital property, upon a decision of the court. The parties were married in 1966. During the marriage, the parties lived and worked on two parcels of farm land. Plaintiff owned one parcel entirely and the other partially prior to the parties’ marriage. During the marriage, plaintiffs parents gifted the remainder of the second parcel to him. Upon plaintiff’s retirement from farming in 1998, he sold the farm and used a portion of the proceeds, in cash, to pay for the marital residence. Plaintiff commenced this action for divorce, alleging cruel and inhuman treatment as well as constructive abandonment, in 2000. Defendant counterclaimed for divorce based on cruel and inhuman treatment. The parties agreed to submit statements of net worth and affidavits of appraisers in lieu of testimony at trial on the value of the marital estate. Following trial, Supreme Court found that defendant constructively abandoned plaintiff and granted the divorce. The court distributed marital property and credited plaintiff for the original value of the farm property, less a mortgage paid out of marital funds. The court also declined to award either party maintenance. Defendant appeals. Defendant asserts that Supreme Court erred in concluding that the farm property was plaintiffs separate property and in crediting plaintiff with the entire value of the farm, less a $5,000 mortgage that was satisfied with marital funds. Where a party contributes separate property—i.e., “property acquired before marriage or property acquired by . . . gift from a party other than the spouse” (Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [1] [d] [1])—toward the purchase of the marital residence, that party is entitled to a return of his or her total contribution (see Solomon v Solomon, 307 AD2d 558, 558-559 [2003]; Judson v Judson, 255 AD2d 656, 657 [1998]; Maczek v Maczek, 248 AD2d 835, 836-837 [1998]). Here, plaintiffs undisputed testimony indicated that he owned one parcel outright and half of the second parcel prior to the marriage. Further, plaintiff testified that his parents gifted the remainder of the second parcel to him after the marriage and there is no record evidence that plaintiffs parents intended to give the parcel to both parties jointly (cf. Solomon v Solomon, supra at 559-560). Inasmuch as an appraiser valued the farm property at $102,150 at the time of the parties’ marriage and a $5,000 mortgage remained outstanding on the property, the court properly determined that plaintiff retained a $97,150 separate interest in that property. Upon sale of the farm property, plaintiff used part of the proceeds to buy the marital residence and took title to that residence in his name. Plaintiff paid cash for the residence and there is no evidence that he ever placed that money in a joint account or otherwise commingled it with marital funds (cf. Carney v Carney, 202 AD2d 907, 908 [1994]). While plaintiff did not provide a paper trail documenting the source of the money used to purchase the marital residence, nothing in either party’s testimony suggests that any other possible source for the money exists (see Sarafian v Sarafian, 140 AD2d 801, 804 [1988]; cf. Cassara v Cassara, 1 AD3d 817 [2003] [decided herewith]). Accordingly, plaintiff is entitled to a credit in the amount of $97,150 for the original value of his separate property contributed to the purchase of the marital residence (see Judson v Judson, supra at 657). Similarly, we conclude that Supreme Court did not abuse its discretion in declining to award defendant maintenance. In determining whether maintenance is appropriate, a trial court must “ ‘consider the payee spouse’s reasonable needs and predivorce standard of living in the context of the other enumerated statutory factors, and then, in [its] discretion, fashion a fair and equitable maintenance award accordingly’ ” (Rosenkranse v Rosenkranse, 290 AD2d 685, 687 [2002], quoting Hartog v Hartog, 85 NY2d 36, 52 [1995]; see Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [6] [a]). Here, the court expressly stated that it considered the parties’ ages, the fact that both are disabled, the duration of the marriage, the approximate $11,000 disparity in the parties’ annual incomes, the fact that the parties’ incomes are not subject to substantial change other than defendant’s eligibility for Social Security benefits in 2006, and the amount of the distributive awards to be received by each party. Despite defendant’s assertions to the contrary, the court’s decision also indicates a consideration of the severity of defendant’s disability, as well as her contributions to the operation of the parties’ dairy farm and as a spouse, parent and homemaker. The record reveals in addition that the parties’ adult daughter lives with defendant and, until a few weeks before trial, gave defendant $60 per week. Under the circumstances here, we find no abuse of discretion in the court’s determination not to award maintenance to either party. We agree with defendant, however, that Supreme Court erred in valuing various mutual fund accounts. Specifically, the court mistakenly stated that the parties had divided these funds during the pendency of the action; instead, the funds had not been divided and the parties are unable to agree on the amounts contained in the funds. Indeed, the parties’ estimates provided in the record vary by tens of thousands of dollars from the values listed by the court. Inasmuch as the record lacks sufficient evidence to permit us to resolve the issue, we must remit the matter to Supreme Court to determine the value of the funds owned by the parties and to equitably distribute those funds. Cardona, PJ., Carpinello, Rose and Lahtinen, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the facts, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as valued various mutual fund accounts and equitably distributed said funds; matter remitted to the Supreme Court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision; and, as so modified, affirmed.
Crew III, J.P. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Schuyler County (Argetsinger, J.), entered August 29, 2002, which granted petitioner’s application, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 7, to adjudicate respondent a person in need of supervision. In March 2002 petitioner, the principal at Odessa-Montour Central School, commenced this proceeding seeking to have respondent, a 16-year-old student, adjudicated a person in need of supervision (hereinafter PINS) based upon his absence from school without a valid excuse on 16 occasions within a two-month period. After denial of respondent’s motion to dismiss the petition, respondent waived his right to a fact-finding hearing and stipulated to the absences alleged in the petition. Family Court then ordered an evaluation of respondent by the Committee on Special Education, which determined that respondent was emotionally disturbed and therefore disabled. Following that finding, respondent renewed his objections to the PINS proceeding based upon his disabled status. Family Court rejected respondent’s objection and, following a waiver of his right to a dispositional hearing, respondent was adjudicated a PINS and placed on probation for one year. Respondent appeals. Respondent contends that Family Court erred in denying his motion to dismiss the petition because it constituted a proposed change to respondent’s individualized education program in violation of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 USC § 1400 et seq.). We disagree. As the Court of Appeals has made plain, not every PINS proceeding contemplates a change in a child’s educational placement (see Matter of Beau II., 95 NY2d 234, 239 [2000]). Here, no such change was contemplated. The proceeding was commenced in order to compel respondent to attend school and, thus, participate in his individualized education program. Indeed, the dispositional order provides that respondent is to comply with his individualized education program. Mugglin, Rose, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed, without costs.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed February 5, 2003, which ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because she voluntarily left her employment without good cause. Substantial evidence supports the decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board finding that claimant voluntarily left her employment as a certified social worker in the adolescent unit of a hospital without good cause. The record establishes that claimant was placed on probation due to issues regarding her job performance. Shortly thereafter, claimant submitted a resignation letter effective July 5, 2002 because she felt that the employer wanted her to leave. On June 12, 2002, the employer advised claimant that, although she would be paid through July 5, 2002, it was not necessary that she continue to work until that date. Neither claimant’s conflicts with her supervisors nor their criticism of her job performance constitutes good cause for leaving employment (see Matter of Pickard [Commissioner of Labor], 296 AD2d 696, 696 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 615 [2002]; Matter of Krinsky [Sweeney], 238 AD2d 659, 659 [1997]; Matter of Layton [Hudacs], 196 AD2d 943, 944 [1993]). Furthermore, the conflicting testimony as to whether the employer asked for claimant’s resignation presented a credibility issue that was within the Board’s discretion to resolve (see Matter of Karastathis [Commissioner of Labor], 298 AD2d 822 [2002]). Mercure, J.P, Peters, Rose, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Carpinello, J. Cross appeals from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Kavanagh, J.), entered November 18, 2002 in Ulster County, ordering, inter alia, equitable distribution of the parties’ marital property, upon a decision of the court. Plaintiff, a licensed veterinarian, and defendant, a licensed dental hygienist but full-time homemaker, were married in 1990 and have four children ranging in age from three to eight years old. The parties stipulated to the grounds for divorce and custody of the children, and a nonjury trial was held on the issues of maintenance, child support and equitable distribution of their marital assets. In its decision on these contested issues, Supreme Court credited the testimony of plaintiffs own expert that plaintiff had underreported the income of his veterinary practice and attributed to him an income of $160,000 per year. The court calculated his child support obligation by applying the statutory child support percentage to this entire figure. The court also ordered him to pay $3,000 per month maintenance for six years and to pay one half of the children’s private school expenses. In addition, the court distributed the parties’ marital assets by awarding defendant one third of the' value of the veterinary practice and its associated real estate, and by awarding each party one half of the equity in the marital residence and one third of the enhanced earnings attributable to the other’s professional license. It further directed that plaintiff retain his veterinary practice and its real estate, with defendant retaining the marital residence and associated personal property. The parties now cross-appeal from the resulting judgment. Initially, defendant contends that Supreme Court erred in fashioning its equitable distribution award because it failed to make a monetary distributive award to effectuate its overall distribution of the marital assets. In its decision, the court determined the value of the parties’ various marital assets, awarded plaintiff shares of each asset totaling $695,166 and awarded defendant shares of assets totaling $422,833. However, the court also directed that plaintiff retain assets valued at $874,000 and that defendant retain assets valued at $244,000. As a result, there is a $178,833 disparity between the court’s overall distribution of the marital assets and the assets actually retained by the parties. The court did not make a monetary distributive award to correct this imbalance, but did award defendant unspecified personal property “to off-set” her share of plaintiffs retained assets and, in addition, ordered plaintiff to assume numerous debts. However, the court did not make specific factual findings as to the value of the personal property awarded to defendant or as to the amount of marital debt to be borne by plaintiff, and there is insufficient evidence in this record from which such information can be discerned. As a consequence, it is unclear as to whether the court, in fact, intended the personal property and assumption of debt to be a full offset for this seeming imbalance in an otherwise well-crafted distribution of the marital assets. Accordingly, we remit for clarification (see Gaglio v Molnar-Gaglio, 300 AD2d 934, 938-939 [2002]; Woertler v Woertler, 110 AD2d 947, 949 [1985]). Next, we see no error in Supreme Court’s determination to impute income to plaintiff. Plaintiffs own accountant testified at trial that he had underreported the income of his veterinary practice in prior years and the practice had paid some of his personal expenses. Income may properly be imputed under such circumstances (see Askew v Askew, 268 AD2d 635, 636 [2000]; Matter of Klein v Klein, 251 AD2d 733, 735 [1998]), and we see no abuse of discretion here. Turning to Supreme Court’s maintenance award, we reject each parties’ challenges to the amount and duration of the award. Determinations as to the amount and duration of maintenance awards are vested in the court’s discretion (see Gaglio v Molnar-Gaglio, supra at 939), and we find no basis to disagree with Supreme Court. The court properly considered the requisite factors, including the substantial disparity in the parties’ incomes, the parties’ standard of living during the marriage, the duration of the marriage and the ages of the parties’ children (see Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [6] [a]). Among plaintiffs contentions is his claim that the court based its six-year award on an erroneous finding that the youngest child would begin school in six years. He thus seeks to have his maintenance obligation end when that child begins school in two years. However, this was but one factor in the court’s deliberations and, in light of the young ages of the parties’ four children, we cannot say that the six-year window for defendant to become self-sufficient or the amount of the award is overly generous (see Moschetti v Moschetti, 277 AD2d 838, 839 [2000]; Love v Love, 250 AD2d 739, 740 [1998]). Nor do we find error in Supreme Court’s application of the child support percentage to plaintiff’s income in excess of $80,000. Because the parties’ combined parental income exceeds $80,000, the court was required to determine the amount of child support attributable to the portion of their income over $80,000 by applying the child support percentage and/or by considering the so-called “paragraph (f)” factors (see Domestic Relations Law § 240 [1-b] [c] [3]; [f]; see also Matter of Mitchell v Mitchell, 264 AD2d 535, 539 [1999], lv denied 94 NY2d 754 [1999]). Where, as here, the court opts to apply the full child support percentage, the court’s reasoning must evidence careful consideration of the parties’ circumstances and reflect a finding that departure from the statutory percentage was not warranted (see Matter of Cassano v Cassano, 85 NY2d 649, 655 [1995]). In this case, the court listed several statutory factors it considered before determining to apply the child support percentage and, while the factual circumstances underlying this specific determination are not fully articulated, the court’s decision as a whole reflects a thorough and careful consideration of the parties’ circumstances. However, Supreme Court improperly deducted plaintiff’s maintenance obligations from his gross income when ealculating his child support obligation. Domestic Relations Law § 240 (1-b) (b) (5) (vii) (C) provides that durational maintenance payments may indeed be deducted from a party’s gross income for child support calculations, but only if the court’s order includes an adjustment to the child support obligation upon the termination of maintenance payments (see Matter of Baker v Baker, 291 AD2d 751, 752-753 [2002]; Kessinger v Kessinger, 202 AD2d 752, 753-754 [1994]). Since Supreme. Court’s failure to include such an adjustment in its order may have been an oversight and because remittal is otherwise required, we also remit this issue to allow Supreme Court to include an adjustment in its order if that was its original intent. Finally, Supreme Court did not articulate its reasons for directing plaintiff to pay one half of the children’s private school expenses. To be sure, the court is empowered to make such an award when in the best interests of the children (see Matter of Wen v Wen, 304 AD2d 897, 898 [2003]; see also Domestic Relations Law § 240 [1-b] [c] [7]). Relevant factors to be considered in such determinations include the educational backgrounds and financial resources of the parties, as well as the children’s academic abilities (see Matter of Wen v Wen, supra at 898; Fruchter v Fruchter, 288 AD2d 942, 943 [2001]; Matter of Cassano v Cassano, 203 AD2d 563, 564 [1994], affd 85 NY2d 649 [1995]; Matter of Rucks v Nugent, 191 AD2d 786, 787-788 [1993]). Here, however, the court did not specify why it ordered plaintiff to contribute to the children’s private school expenses. Under the particular circumstances of this case, where remittal is otherwise required, we also remit this issue to allow Supreme Court to articulate the reasoning underlying this directive. Mercure, J.P., Mugglin, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is modified, on the law and the facts, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as distributed the marital assets, determined child support and ordered payment of private school expenses; matter remitted to the Supreme Court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court’s decision; and, as so modified, affirmed.
Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of Supreme Court, entered in Ulster County) to review a determination of respondent which found petitioner guilty of violating a prison disciplinary rule. Petitioner commenced this proceeding challenging a determination finding him guilty of violating the prison disciplinary rule that prohibits possession of contraband. The Attorney General has advised this Court by letter that the determination at issue has been administratively reversed and that all references thereto have been expunged from petitioner’s institutional record. Inasmuch as petitioner has received all the relief to which he is entitled and is no longer aggrieved, the matter is dismissed as moot (see Matter of Saunders v Goord, 289 AD2d 649 [2001]). Cardona, P.J., Peters, Spain, Rose and Kane, JJ., concur. Adjudged that the petition is dismissed, as moot, without costs.
Mugglin, J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Nolan, Jr., J), entered September 6, 2002 in Saratoga County, which partially granted defendant Frank Ryan’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. In this action, plaintiff seeks to recover for injuries he alleges he sustained in two separate car accidents. The first accident occurred in August 1997 when plaintiffs vehicle was rear-ended while he was stopped at a traffic light. In September 1999, while working as a flagman, plaintiff was struck by a vehicle operated by defendant Frank Ryan (hereinafter defendant). The issue on this appeal is whether or not plaintiff sustained a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) in the second of these accidents. Following joinder of issue and discovery, defendant moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint, alleging plaintiff sustained no serious injury in this accident. Supreme Court granted defendant summary judgment with respect to those categories of serious injury involving permanent loss of use of a body organ, member, function or system and a nonpermanent injury that prevented plaintiff from performing his usual daily activities for 90 of the first 180 days following the accident. Supreme Court denied defendant’s motion for summary judgment with respect to the permanent consequential limitation of use and significant limitation of use categories. Defendant appeals. In support of his motion, defendant submitted an independent medical evaluation which was based on the doctor’s physical examination of plaintiff and a review of plaintiff’s prior medical records. This doctor concluded that there is no objective evidence of injury related to the September 1999 accident. Thus, plaintiff was required to come forward with evidence of such injury to establish a triable issue of fact (see Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955, 956-957 [1992]; Trotter v Hart, 285 AD2d 772, 773 [2001]; Hines v Capital Dist. Transp. Auth., 280 AD2d 768, 769 [2001]). To do so, plaintiff relies on the affidavit and report of a chiropractor, the office notes of his treating physician, a neuropsychological evaluation, an examination conducted by a neurologist, and an evaluation of an orthopedic surgeon. For the categories of permanent consequential limitation of use of a body organ or member and significant limitation of use of a body function or system, the proof must relate to “ ‘medical significance and involves a comparative determination of the degree or qualitative nature of an injury based on the normal function, purpose and use of the body part’ ” (Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345, 353 [2002], quoting Dufel v Green 84 NY2d 795, 798 [1995]; see Tornatore v Haggerty, 307 AD2d 522, 523 [2003]). After careful review, we conclude that plaintiffs submissions raise no triable issue of fact. Each report is deficient in that it either fails to quantitatively or qualitatively establish serious injury or it fails to causally relate an injury to the 1999 accident. Plaintiffs treating orthopedic surgeon’s notes appear to deal exclusively with the first accident, making no reference to the September 1999 accident or injuries allegedly sustained therein. The neuropsychologist’s report reviews an MRI done on October 17, 1997 which revealed only some spondylosis of the cervical spine, but was otherwise negative. This doctor further reviewed an MRI of the brain done on March 19, 1998 and an EMG conducted on July 14, 1999, both of which were either unremarkable or essentially normal. This report indicates that the September 1999 accident exacerbated plaintiffs disturbed sleep syndrome, but does not relate a claim for traumatic brain injury to anything but the 1997 accident, and offers no qualitative analysis of the injury, there being no baseline testing to refer to. The reviewing orthopedic surgeon states no objective medical basis for his finding of moderate disability in plaintiff s right shoulder; the neurologist and the chiropractor both find spasm and limited range of motion, but neither describes the tests used to obtain the quantitative percentages of loss of range of motion nor do they note specifically the degree of limitation of plaintiffs function or describe recommendations for treatment (see Trotter v Hart, supra at 773; Fountain v Sullivan, 261 AD2d 795, 796 [1999]). Moreover, none of plaintiffs experts has submitted objective evidence by which the claimed aggravation of his 1997 injuries can be measured (see Hines v Capital Dist. Transp. Auth., supra at 770). Defendant’s summary judgment motion, therefore, should have been granted in its entirety. Cardona, P.J., Crew III, Feters and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is modified, on the law, with costs to defendant Frank Ryan, by reversing so much thereof as partially denied defendant Frank Ryan’s motion for summary judgment; motion granted in its entirety and complaint dismissed against said defendant; and, as so modified, affirmed.
Carpincho, J. Appeal from three orders of the Supreme Court (Ceresia, Jr., J.), entered September 27, 2002 in Rensselaer County, which, inter alia, granted defendant’s motion to enforce the terms of a separation agreement. Flaintiff commenced an action for divorce in 2001, and the parties subsequently negotiated the division of their only significant marital assets, namely, plaintiff’s pension and deferred compensation plans. The parties, after consultation with their respective attorneys, executed a separation agreement that purportedly provided for the distribution of the pension plan in accordance with the formula set forth in Majauskas v Majauskas (61 NY2d 481 [1984]). Significantly, the agreement included a number of handwritten changes to a typed draft. With respect to the pension plan, the original draft provided that the numerator of the Majauskas fractional formula would be the number of months that plaintiff was employed under the retirement plan “during the marriage.” The handwritten change, initialed by both parties, deleted this phrase and redefined the numerator to encompass the total number of months that plaintiff was employed under the plan up to the commencement of the divorce action. Since plaintiff had been employed for more than 10 years prior to the parties’ marriage, this change was significant in that it gave defendant a much larger share of plaintiffs pension than the traditional Majauskas formula. The separation agreement was incorporated but not merged into a judgment of divorce. Plaintiff subsequently prepared a proposed domestic relations order that set the Majauskas numerator as the number of months of plaintiffs employment during the marriage up to the commencement of the divorce action. Defendant, in turn, prepared an alternate domestic relations order using a numerator based upon the total number of months of plaintiffs employment both predating and during the parties’ marriage. When the parties could not resolve this dispute, defendant brought the instant motion to enforce the terms of the separation agreement. Supreme Court rejected plaintiffs extrinsic evidence regarding the parties’ alleged intentions and found that the pension provision unambiguously encompassed plaintiff’s total employment before the filing of the action for divorce, not just the employment during the marriage. The court granted defendant’s motion, and plaintiff appeals. We affirm. The argument presented by plaintiff on appeal is that defendant’s counsel fraudulently induced plaintiffs counsel to alter the original pension plan provision of the draft separation agreement by representing that the change was “semantical and not substantive.” To be sure, a separation agreement is properly set aside if it was induced by fraud (see Christian v Christian, 42 NY2d 63, 72 [1977]; Wisniewski v Cairo, 305 AD2d 788, 789 [2003]; Sheridan v Sheridan, 202 AD2d 749, 751 [1994]). As with any fraud claim though, the proponent must establish “(1) misrepresentation of a material fact, (2) scienter, (3) justifiable reliance, and (4) injury or damages” (Rosario-Suarz v Wormuth Bros. Foundry, 233 AD2d 575, 578 [1996]; see Sherman v Eisenberg, 267 AD2d 29, 31 [1999], lv dismissed 94 NY2d 899 [2000]). In addition, “[w]hen a party is represented by counsel, subsequent allegations of fraud are generally unpersuasive” (Van Wie v Van Wie, 124 AD2d 353, 355 [1986]). Here, the record fails to establish that defendant or her counsel misrepresented the import of the handwritten change in the pension provision. Plaintiff argues that the change at issue was in fact suggested, and misrepresented, by defendant’s counsel. Defendant’s counsel, however, submitted an affirmation asserting that plaintiff’s counsel requested the subject change, that her client understood that the change was advantageous to her and that the result was not unreasonable “in light" of her agreement to forego any other equitable distribution and spousal maintenance.” Even if any misrepresentation occurred, plaintiff’s bare allegations are insufficient to establish the remaining elements of fraud. Notably, he offered no evidence, other than conclusory assertions, to show that defendant or her counsel intentionally deceived him. Further, we see no justifiable basis for his reliance on any alleged misrepresentations inasmuch as the effect of the new term could have been discerned through the exercise of ordinary intelligence (see McGovern v Best Bldg. & Remodeling, 245 AD2d 925, 927-928 [1997]; Cohen v Colistra, 233 AD2d 542, 543 [1996]). Mercure, J.P, Feters, Spain and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the orders are affirmed, without costs.
Appeal from a decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, filed March 20, 2003, which ruled that claimant was disqualified from receiving unemployment insurance benefits because she voluntarily left her employment without good cause. Substantial evidence supports the decision of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board that claimant resigned from her employment in the take-out food department at a grocery store for personal and noncompelling reasons. Claimant testified that on the last day of her employment, she developed a migraine headache caused by her coworkers who were in the habit of gossiping about her and ridiculing her. She left the store during her break to go home for migraine medication and never returned. It is well settled that a claimant’s inability to get along with coworkers does not necessarily constitute good cause for leaving employment (see Matter of Mullen [Commissioner of Labor], 301 AD2d 936 [2003]; Matter of Cioffi [Commissioner of Labor], 297 AD2d 854 [2002]). This may be true even if such on-the-job conflict gives rise to physical symptoms. Claimant testified that certain stress-related ailments that she suffered due to the hostility of her coworkers (e.g., headaches and stomachaches) compelled her to seek treatment from a psychologist. This does not, however, render her resignation any the less voluntary, as hearing testimony disclosed that claimant’s psychologist never advised her to resign (see Matter of Dunster [Commissioner of Labor], 304 AD2d 1015 [2003]). Claimant’s further assertion that she did not quit her job but was discharged from her employment presented an issue of credibility for resolution by the Board (see Matter of Fradys [Commissioner of Labor], 308 AD2d 672 [2003]). Whether to grant a request to reopen lies within the discretionary power of the Board and we find no abuse of the Board’s discretion here (see Matter of Otto [Olympia Sports — Commissioner of Labor], 290 AD2d 891 [2002]). The remaining issues raised by claimant have been examined and found to be unpersuasive. Cardona, EJ., Mercure, Spain, Lahtinen and Kane, JJ., concur. Ordered that the decision is affirmed, without costs.
Appeal from a judgment (denominated order) of Supreme Court, Niagara County (Boniello, III, J.), entered September 6, 2002, which denied defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint and declared Executive Law § 632-a constitutional. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs for reasons stated in decision at Supreme Court, Niagara County, Boniello, III, J. (Snuszki v Wright, 193 Mise 2d 490 [2002]). Present — Pigott, Jr., EJ, Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Cosgrove, J.), entered October 11, 2002, which granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment, dismissed the amended complaint and denied plaintiffs cross motion for leave to amend the amended complaint. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs (see Hughes v Nussbaumer, Clarke & Velzy, 140 AD2d 988 [1988]; Chase Manhattan Bank v Roberts & Roberts, 63 AD2d 566, 567 [1978]; see also CPLR 5501 [a] [1]). Present — Pigott, Jr., EJ., Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from ajudgment of Supreme Court, Erie County (Cosgrove,- J.), entered October 24, 2002, which dismissed the amended complaint. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs for reasons stated in decision at Supreme Court, Erie County, Cosgrove, J. Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Erie County (Rosa, J.), entered July 23, 2002, which adjudged that Antonio J. is an abandoned child, transferred the guardianship and custody rights of respondent to petitioner and authorized petitioner to consent to the adoption of the child. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Family Court properly terminated the parental rights of respondent with respect to his son on the ground of abandonment (see Social Services Law § 384-b [4] [b]; Matter of Derrick J., 287 AD2d 503 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 608 [2002]; Matter of Anthony M., 195 AD2d 315 [1993]). The child was born out of wedlock in 1991 and has been in foster care since December 1998. The present proceeding was commenced in March 2000 after the mother voluntarily surrendered her parental rights. Respondent has not seen the child since shortly before respondent’s incarceration in December 1998, and respondent does not dispute that he failed to contact the child or petitioner during the six-month period immediately prior to the filing of the petition (see § 384-b [5] [a]). The contention of respondent that the mother concealed the child’s whereabouts from him is not supported by the record inasmuch as there was a complete absence of any contact between the mother and respondent during the relevant time period. Indeed, respondent’s last contact with the mother prior to the filing of the petition was shortly before respondent was incarcerated. The testimony of respondent that he unsuccessfully tried to locate the mother and the child while incarcerated was not credited by the court, and that finding, “which turns almost entirely ... on the assessment of the character and temperament of the parent, . . . must be accorded the greatest respect” (Matter of Irene O., 38 NY2d 776, 777 [1975]). The burden rested on respondent to maintain contact with the child (see Matter of Julius P., 63 NY2d 477, 481 [1984]), and thus we deem it irrelevant that the efforts of petitioner to locate respondent may have been thwarted by incorrect information provided by the mother. Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Cattaraugus County (Nenno, J.), entered July 3, 2002, which adjudged that respondent is a juvenile delinquent and placed her on probation for a period of one year. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Family Court’s finding that respondent committed an act that, if committed by an adult, would constitute the crime of assault in the third degree (Penal Law § 120.00) is based on legally sufficient evidence and is not against the weight of the evidence. The circumstantial evidence, including that contained on the videotape of the incident, establishes that respondent tripped her school bus driver as the driver walked past her down the aisle of the bus, causing the driver to injure her knee (see Matter of Joseph J., 299 AD2d 235 [2002]). Respondent’s intent to cause physical injury can be inferred from the conduct and surrounding circumstances (see Matter of Marcel F., 233 AD2d 442 [1996]), including the evidence that the tripping occurred immediately after the bus driver forced respondent to change her seat to the front of the bus, a move respondent admitted she did not like. Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County (Noonan, J.), entered October 28, 1999, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, murder in the second degree (two counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that the People violated their obligations under Brady v Maryland (373 US 83, 87 [1963]) to disclose information regarding a favorable plea agreement used to induce a prosecution witness to testify against defendant (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Griffin, 129 AD2d 975 [1987], lv denied 69 NY2d 1004 [1987]). Moreover, to the extent that defendant’s contention is based upon material outside the trial record, it is more appropriately raised in a motion pursuant to CPL 440.10 (see People v Wilson, 283 AD2d 339, 340 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 644 [2001]). We reject the contentions of defendant that he established the affirmative defense to felony murder (Penal Law § 125.25 [3] [a]-[d]) by a preponderance of the evidence and that the jury’s verdict on the felony murder counts of the indictment is contrary to the weight of the evidence (see People v Jeanty, 268 AD2d 675, 677 [2000], lv denied 94 NY2d 949 [2000]). The evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the People (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620, 621 [1983]), is legally sufficient to support defendant’s conviction of burglary in the first degree (§ 140.30 [2]) and attempted robbery in the first degree (§§ 110.00, 160.15 [1]). Further, the verdict on those counts is not contrary to the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that prosecutorial misconduct on summation deprived him of a fair trial (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Wright, 269 AD2d 831 [2000], lv denied 94 NY2d 954 [2000]), and we decline to exercise our power to review that contention as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). We reject the contention of defendant that he was deprived of a fair trial and due process of law as the result of Supreme Court’s denial of his Batson challenges with respect to two African-American prospective jurors. The court properly determined that the prosecutor’s explanations for exercising peremptory challenges with respect to those jurors were race-neutral, and defendant failed to meet his burden of establishing that those explanations were pretextual (see People v Welch, 298 AD2d 903 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 565 [2002]; see generally People v Smocum, 99 NY2d 418, 422 [2003]). The court properly admitted in evidence the hearsay statements of a codefendant as declarations of a coconspirator during the course of and in furtherance of the conspiracy (see People v Wolf, 98 NY2d 105, 118 [2002]; People v Moore, 275 AD2d 969, 969-970 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 936 [2000]). Finally, the sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Niagara County Court (Hannigan, J.), entered May 1, 1998, convicting defendant after a jury trial of manslaughter in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: On appeal from a judgment convicting him following a jury trial of manslaughter in the first degree (Penal Law § 125.20 [2]), defendant contends that County Court should have adjudicated him a youthful offender. Because the record does not reflect any request for youthful offender status, defendant waived any right to that adjudication (see People v Burlew, 261 AD2d 828 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 1015 [1999]). In any event, we conclude that defendant’s contention lacks merit (see id.). The sentence is neither unduly harsh nor severe. Present— Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ. 8
Appeal from a judgment of Erie County Court (Drury, J.), entered May 16, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, murder in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him following a jury trial of murder in the second degree (Penal Law § 125.25 [1]) and other crimes arising from the shooting of four people in Buffalo. We reject defendant’s contention that County Court’s Sandoval ruling constituted an abuse of discretion (see People v Hayes, 97 NY2d 203, 207-208 [2002]). In any event, even assuming, arguendo, that the court thereby abused its discretion, we conclude that the error is harmless (see People v Butler, 300 AD2d 1103 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 613 [2003]; People v Jacobs, 298 AD2d 954, 955 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 559 [2002]). The proof of guilt is overwhelming, and there is no significant probability that the jury would have acquitted defendant if not for the alleged error (see People v Ayala, 75 NY2d 422, 431 [1990], rearg denied; 76 NY2d 773 [1990]). Defendant’s further contention that the court erred in failing to give an appropriate limiting instruction with respect to the People’s cross-examination of defendant concerning three prior bad acts is not preserved for our review (see CPL 470.05 [2]), and we decline to exercise our power to review that contention as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). We further conclude that the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]) and that the sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. Defendant contends in a pro se supplemental brief that the seizure of his photograph from his apartment by the police was illegal and that the court therefore erred in failing to suppress the identifications made from the photo array that included that photograph. Defendant abandoned his motion to suppress the evidence seized from his apartment, however, and thus his contention is not properly before us (see People v Di Lenola, 245 AD2d 1132 [1997]; People v Rowell, 163 AD2d 833, 834 [1990], lv denied 76 NY2d 896 [1990]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Niagara County Court (Broderick, Sr., J.), entered November 22, 2000, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, robbery in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: On appeal from a judgment convicting him following a jury trial of, inter alia, robbery in the first degree (Penal Law § 160.15 [3]), defendant contends that the prosecutor improperly elicited testimony regarding a witness’s pretrial photo identification of defendant. County Court sustained defense counsel’s objections to the prosecutor’s questions and instructed the jury to disregard the questions and the partial responses to them. Defendant did not thereafter request further curative instructions or move for a mistrial and thus failed to preserve for our review his present contention that the prosecutor’s conduct deprived him of a fair trial (see CPL 470.05 [2]; People v Pross, 302 AD2d 895, 897 [2003], Iv denied 99 NY2d 657 [2003]; People v Tinsley, 159 AD2d 602 [1990]). Defendant also failed to preserve for our review his contentions that prosecutorial misconduct on summation deprived him of a fair trial (see People v Wright, 269 AD2d 831 [2000], lv denied 94 NY2d 954 [2000]) and that the court improperly questioned witnesses (see People v Johnson, 130 AD2d 766 [1987], lv denied 70 NY2d 649 [1987]), and we decline to exercise our power to review those contentions as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). The evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the People (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620, 621 [1983]), is legally sufficient to support defendant’s conviction of robbery. The verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Finally, the sentence is not unduly harsh or severe, and defendant was not denied effective assistance of counsel at sentencing (see People v Jones, 261 AD2d 920 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 972 [1999]; People v Adams, 247 AD2d 819 [1998], lv denied 91 NY2d 1004 [1998]). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeals from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Cosgrove, J), entered May 23, 2003, which denied the petition seeking a permanent stay of arbitration. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Supreme Court properly denied the petition seeking a permanent stay of arbitration (see CPLR 7503 [b]). Although Louis Berti (respondent) failed to disclose the arbitration claim when he filed for protection under chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code (11 USC), he subsequently amended his bankruptcy schedule of assets to include that claim. With the consent of the bankruptcy trustee, the bankruptcy discharge of respondent was reopened and his counsel was appointed to pursue the arbitration claim on behalf of the trustee for the benefit of the bankruptcy estate. Contrary to petitioners’ contention, the doctrine of judicial estoppel is not applicable under the circumstances of this case. “In a bankruptcy context, judicial estoppel prevents a party from prosecuting claims not disclosed in a bankruptcy proceeding that resulted in the party’s discharge” (McIntosh Builders v Ball, 264 AD2d 869, 870 [1999]). The doctrine is not applicable, however, “in the absence of a final determination in the bankruptcy proceeding endorsing the party’s inconsistent position concerning his or her assets” (Koch v National Basketball Assn., 245 AD2d 230, 231 [1997]). Here, the bankruptcy proceeding was reopened by the Bankruptcy Court in the exercise of its discretion, “thereby nullifying] the final determination upon which a judicial estoppel could be predicated” (id.). We reject petitioners’ further contention that respondents lack standing to pursue the arbitration claim (see generally Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Sec. Corp. v Mathiasen, 207 AD2d 280, 282 [1994]). Although the bankruptcy estate includes the arbitration claim (see Seward v Devine, 888 F2d 957, 963 [1989]), a chapter 13 debtor, unlike a chapter 7 debtor (see e.g. Hansen v Madani, 263 AD2d 881 [1999]; Reynolds v Blue Cross of Northeastern N.Y., 210 AD2d 619, 620 [1994]), has standing to pursue any cause of action that he or she possesses (see Olick v Parker & Parsley Petroleum Co., 145 F3d 513, 515-516 [1998]). In any event, even in a chapter 7 proceeding, the trustee may consent, as he did here, to the debtor’s continued prosecution of a claim for the benefit of the bankruptcy estate (see Detrick v Panalpina, Inc., 108 F3d 529, 535-536 [1997], cert denied sub nom. Gold v Panalpina, Inc., 522 US 810 [1997]). Present— Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Pine, WIsner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Ontario County Court (Doran, J.), entered July 30, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of rape in the third degree (two counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of two counts of rape in the third degree (Penal Law § 130.25 [2]). Defendant contends that County Court erred in denying his suppression motion because his statements were the result of custodial interrogation and the requisite Miranda warnings were not given. We reject that contention. Here, a police officer asked defendant to come to the police station to answer questions, and defendant agreed to do so. “A reasonable person innocent of any crime would not have believed that he was in custody, and thus [Miranda] warnings were not required” (People v Scott, 288 AD2d 846, 847 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 761 [2002], citing People v Yukl, 25 NY2d 585, 589 [1969], rearg denied 26 NY2d 883 [1970], cert denied 400 US 851 [1970]). The sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Gorski, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Bergin, J.), entered July 12, 2002, which, inter alia, denied the motion of defendants Cucinelli Family, LLC and James Cucinelli, doing business as Light Fabrications, to vacate a default judgment entered against them. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Cucinelli Family, LLC and James Cucinelli, doing business as Light Fabrications (collectively, defendants), moved pursuant to CPLR 5015 (a) (1) to vacate a default judgment entered against them after Supreme Court granted plaintiff’s unopposed motion pursuant to CPLR 3215 (a). Defendants contend that they established a reasonable excuse for their default in answering the complaint and that they have a meritorious defense to the action. The court properly denied defendants’ motion to vacate the default judgment because defendants’ evidence of excusable default is insufficient. “Although the determination of what constitutes a reasonable excuse lies within the sound discretion of the trial court, the movant must submit supporting facts in evidentiary form sufficient to justify the default” (Incorporated Vil. of Hempstead v Jablonsky, 283 AD2d 553, 554 [2001] [internal citations omitted]; see Empire Chevrolet Sales Corp. v Spallone, 304 AD2d 708 [2003]; Wynyard v Antique Co. of N.Y., 247 AD2d 265 [1998]). In support of their motion, defendants submitted an affidavit from their controller, who averred that defendants had forwarded the pleadings to an unidentified insurance agent and that he had been advised by an unidentified source that the pleadings had been forwarded to the insurance company. The insurance company, however, denied ever receiving the pleadings, and the averments of the controller fail to establish that he had personal knowledge of the facts alleged in his affidavit. An affidavit from one “without any personal knowledge of the events surrounding the default [ ]” is insufficient to establish a reasonable excuse for that default (Jablonsky, 283 AD2d at 554). “Given the failure of defendant[s] to demonstrate a reasonable excuse for [their] default, we need not address whether defendants] demonstrated a meritorious defense to the action” (Johnson v McFadden Ford, 278 AD2d 907, 907 [2000]). Inasmuch as no excuse has been offered for defendants’ failure to respond to the motion for a default judgment, we do not reach the issue whether the court ordered entry of judgment in violation of CPLR 3215 (c). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Pine, Wisner and Kehoe, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Oswego County Court (Hafner, Jr., J.), entered July 10, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, assault in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by vacating the sentence imposed on count three of the indictment, assault in the second degree, and as modified the judgment is affirmed, and the matter is remitted to Oswego County Court for resentencing on count three of the indictment. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of assault in the second degree (Penal Law § 120.05 [3]) and resisting arrest (§ 205.30) arising from an incident during which he bit a deputy sheriff on the finger and punched him several times. Defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that the evidence of physical injury is legally insufficient to establish his guilt of assault in the second degree (see People v Gray, 86 NY2d 10, 19 [1995]), and we decline to exercise our power to review that contention as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see CPL 470.15 [6] [a]). We reject his further contention with respect to the legal sufficiency of the evidence supporting the conviction, and we conclude that the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Contrary to defendant’s further contentions, County Court did not abuse its discretion in admitting in evidence a videotape of part of the incident (see People v Hill, 281 AD2d 917, 918 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 902 [2001]) and in sustaining the People’s objection to a proffered cross-examination of the complaining witness (see People v Antonetty, 268 AD2d 254 [2000], lv denied 94 NY2d 945 [2000]). We note that the court imposed a determinate term of imprisonment based upon its misapprehension that such a sentence is mandatory for assault in the second degree. A determinate term of imprisonment is an authorized sentence for assault in the second degree (see Penal Law § 70.02 [2] [b]; [3] [c]), but it is not required and, although some imprisonment is mandatory (see § 60.05 [5]), a definite term of imprisonment of one year or less under Penal Law § 70.00 (4) or an intermittent term of imprisonment under sections 60.05 (5) and 85.00 is also authorized (see People v Housman, 291 AD2d 665, 666 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 638 [2002]), as is a split sentence of imprisonment and probation (§60.01 [2] [d]). We therefore modify the judgment by vacating the sentence imposed on count three of the indictment, assault in the second degree, and we remit the matter to Oswego County Court for resentencing on that count (see People v John, 288 AD2d 848, 850 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 705 [2002]). The sentence on the remaining count is not unduly harsh or severe. We have reviewed defendant’s remaining contentions and conclude that they are without merit. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Wisner and Kehoe, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Livingston County Court (Alonzo, J.), entered October 31, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of driving while intoxicated as a felony. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed, and the matter is remitted to Livingston County Court for proceedings pursuant to CPL 460.50 (5). Memorandum: On appeal from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of driving while intoxicated as a felony (Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1192 [3]; § 1193 [1] [c] [i]), defendant contends that County Court erred in denying his motion seeking suppression of evidence arising from the stop of his motor vehicle in the Village of Avon. We reject at the outset the People’s contention that, by pleading guilty, defendant forfeited the right to appellate review of the order denying his suppression motion (see CPL 710.70 [2]). In support of his motion, defendant contended that a Village of Avon police officer exceeded his geographical jurisdiction because he made the stop based on traffic infractions he observed while the motor vehicle was traveling through the Town of Avon (see CPL 140.10 [2] [a]; People v Howard, 115 AD2d 321 [1985]). The court denied defendant’s motion after a hearing, agreeing with the People that the officer’s observations outside the Village of Avon gave rise to reasonable suspicion that defendant was driving while intoxicated in the Village of Avon (see People v May, 81 NY2d 725, 727 [1992]; People v Sobotker, 43 NY2d 559, 563-564 [1978]). Defendant now contends that the court erred in making that determination because the officer did not expressly testify at the hearing that he stopped defendant for driving while intoxicated. We reject that contention. The officer testified that he observed defendant, immediately prior to entering the Village of Avon, drive off the road three times, drive left of center and fail to signal a left-hand turn. Contrary to defendant’s contention, it is not dispositive that the officer failed to specify that he stopped defendant for driving while intoxicated. Rather, “the test is what could lawfully be done [based on the officer’s observations]” (United States v Ochs, 595 F2d 1247, 1256 [1979], cert denied 444 US 955, [1979] reh denied 444 US 1027 [1980]), i.e., whether “the circumstances, viewed objectively, justify [the] action” taken by the officer (Scott v United States, 436 US 128, 138, [1978] reh denied 438 US 908 [1978]; see People v Robinson, 97 NY2d 341, 350 [2001]; LaFave, Search and Seizure § 1.4 [d] [3d ed]). We agree with the court that the officer’s observations outside the Village of Avon gave rise to reasonable suspicion that defendant was driving while intoxicated within the Village of Avon, and thus we conclude that the stop was legal (see People v Sauger, 58 AD2d 919, 920 [1977]). Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal and cross appeal from a judgment (denominated order) of Supreme Court, Wayne County (Sirkin, J.), entered August 19, 2002, which denied plaintiffs motion for summary judgment. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by granting judgment in favor of defendant as follows: It is adjudged and declared that plaintiff must defend defendant in the underlying action until the disputed factual allegations are resolved at trial and as modified the judgment is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Supreme Court properly denied plaintiffs motion for summary judgment in this declaratory judgment action. Although no covered occurrence is evident from the four corners of the complaint in the underlying action, that is not the “sole criteria for measuring the scope of’ the duty to defend (Fitzpatrick v American Honda Motor Co., 78 NY2d 61, 66 [1991]). An insurer must provide a defense where it has knowledge of facts that would “potentially bring the claim within the policy’s indemnity coverage” (id.). Here, the plaintiff in the underlying action, Alan Cook, contends that defendant intentionally drove his motor vehicle at him, while defendant contends that he drove off the road toward Cook, who was waving a flashlight and yelling, to see if he was in trouble or needed assistance. If the truck’s mirror hit Cook under the latter circumstances, defendant’s conduct may have constituted a negligent act involving the use of a motor vehicle falling within the policy’s coverage. The court, however, erred in denying the motion without declaring the rights of the parties. “[RJather than mechanically applying only the ‘four corners of the complaint’ rule . . ., the sounder approach is to require the insurer to provide a defense when it has actual knowledge of facts establishing a reasonable possibility of coverage” (id. at 67; see also A. Meyers & Sons Corp. v Zurich Am. Ins. Group, 74 NY2d 298, 302 [1989]). An insurer cannot ignore facts made known to it by its insured and rely on the complaint alone to assess its duty to defend (see Fitzpatrick, 78 NY2d at 70). If any of the claims against defendant in the underlying action arguably arise from a covered occurrence, plaintiff is required to defend the entire action (see Frontier Insulation Contr. v Merchants Mut. Ins. Co., 91 NY2d 169, 175 [1997]). We therefore modify the judgment by granting judgment in favor of defendant declaring that plaintiff must defend defendant in the underlying action until the disputed factual allegations are resolved at trial. Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from, a judgment of Erie County Court (DiTullio, J.), entered January 24, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of criminal possession of marihuana in the third degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law, the motion is granted, the indictment is dismissed, and the matter is remitted to Erie County Court for proceedings pursuant to CPL 470.45. Memorandum: On appeal from a judgment convicting him of criminal possession of marihuana in the third degree (Penal Law § 221.20), defendant contends that the evidence is legally insufficient to support his conviction because the accomplice testimony was not sufficiently corroborated (see CPL 60.22). We agree. Corroborative evidence need not establish all the elements of an offense (see People v Steinberg, 79 NY2d 673, 683 [1992]; see also People v Breland, 83 NY2d 286, 292 [1994]) but, rather, is sufficient if it consists of “evidence from an independent source of some material fact tending to show that defendant was implicated in the crime” (People v Kress, 284 NY 452, 460 [1940]; see People v Moses, 63 NY2d 299, 306 [1984]). Here, however, the evidence offered to corroborate the testimony of defendant’s alleged accomplice, Jacquelyn Thagard, fails to establish anything more than defendant’s mere presence at the scene of Thagard’s criminal activity and thus fails to satisfy the requirements of CPL 60.22. Thagard, who along with defendant was arrested and charged with criminal possession of marihuana in the third degree, pleaded guilty to that charge and was sentenced to a term of probation as part of a plea bargain that required her to testify against defendant. At defendant’s trial, Thagard testified that, at defendant’s request, she carried a bag of marihuana belonging to defendant by secreting it beneath her coat as she and defendant left her residence, entered defendant’s car, and left with defendant driving and Thagard a front-seat passenger. She further testified that the marihuana remained concealed beneath her coat until police officers pulled defendant’s car over, approached on foot, and spoke with defendant, at which point she tossed the marihuana underneath the car. The only evidence offered by the People to corroborate Thagard’s testimony was the testimony of police detective Niemann. Niemann testified that, while preparing to execute a search warrant at Thagard’s residence, he saw Thagard leave the residence and drive away in a car operated by defendant. Niemann further testified that he and Detective Wells followed in their police vehicle, pulled up behind defendant’s stopped car, and approached it on foot. Finally, Niemann testified that, after Wells asked defendant to step out of the car and while Wells was speaking with defendant, Thagard opened the passenger door and dropped the bag of marihuana underneath the car. “Presence is relevant on the issue of corroboration where the crime proceeds in an open manner so that the facts of criminality must be known to all present .... Association with an actor in the crime is relevant only if it may reasonably give rise to an inference that the defendant was also a participant” (People v Wasserman, 46 AD2d 915, 916 [1974]). “Presence at the scene of a crime may provide the necessary corroboration where, for example, ‘there was no plausible hypothesis therefor other than that the defendant was a likely participant in the criminal transaction, or, even if there were an innocent explanation therefor, if the circumstances of the crime itself were otherwise such as to import corroborating significance’ ” (People v Moses, 63 NY2d 299, 307 [1984], quoting People v Hudson, 51 NY2d 233, 240 n [1980]). Here, the corroborating evidence establishes only that Thagard entered defendant’s car while carrying the concealed marihuana and that, approximately five minutes later, while a police detective was speaking with defendant outside of defendant’s car, Thagard dropped the marihuana underneath the car from the passenger’s seat. That evidence is insufficient to corroborate the testimony of Thagard that defendant was a culpable participant in her possession of the marihuana, which did not occur “in an open manner so that the fact of criminality must [have been] known to all present” (Wasserman, 46 AD2d at 916; see People v Lanza, 57 NY2d 807, 809, [1982] revg on dissent 83 AD2d 714, 715 [1981]; see generally Hudson, 51 NY2d at 238-240; cf. People v McLean, 307 AD2d 586 [2003]; People v Forte, 163 AD2d 840 [1990]). We therefore reverse the judgment of conviction, grant defendant’s motion, dismiss the indictment, and remit the matter to Erie County Court for proceedings pursuant to CPL 470.45. Present—Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Scudder and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal and cross appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Glownia, J.), entered May 20, 2002, which, inter alia, denied the motion of defendant City of Buffalo Sewer Authority seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff commenced this action in 1983 alleging that defendants were negligent in excavating and relocating parts of the sewer system in the City of Buffalo in connection with plaintiffs development of a light rail transit system. Defendant City of Buffalo Sewer Authority (BSA) contracted with defendant O’Brien & Gere Engineers, Inc. (O’Brien) to design and create specifications for the project, and BSA contracted with defendant Freeway Contracting Co., Inc. (Freeway) to excavate and relocate the sewer lines. Plaintiff alleges that the substructure of the transit system was adversely affected as a result of defendants’ negligence, thereby causing damage to the integrity and operation of the surface section of the transit system. Supreme Court properly denied the motion of BSA seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it based on plaintiffs alleged failure to serve a timely notice of claim. Although BSA met its initial burden on the motion by establishing that the notice of claim was served more than 90 days after the date on which damage occurred (see General Municipal Law § 50-e [1] [a]; see generally Kronos, Inc. v AVX Corp., 81 NY2d 90, 94 [1993]), we conclude that plaintiff raised an issue of fact with respect to the date of that damage, i.e., the date on which the subsurface voids occurred and the track bed was thereby detrimentally affected (see generally Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562). We reject the contention of plaintiff and Freeway that BSA is barred by the doctrine of law of the case from litigating the issue concerning the timeliness of service of the notice of claim. The court determined in 1989 that the proper party was served and, in the context of that determination, the court stated that the notice of claim was timely served. The issue with respect to the timeliness of service was not essential to the court’s determination that the proper party was served, however, and the parties did not have a full and fair opportunity to litigate the issue of timeliness of the service (see Wright v Rite Aid of N.Y. [appeal No. 2], 288 AD2d 834, 835 [2001]). We further conclude that the court properly denied BSA’s cross motion seeking conditional orders of contractual and common-law indemnification from O’Brien and Freeway. Pursuant to its contract with BSA, O’Brien is obligated to indemnify BSA for BSA’s liability resulting from O’Brien’s negligence. BSA failed to meet its initial burden of establishing that O’Brien was negligent and thus failed to establish its entitlement to judgment as a matter of law on its cross claims seeking contractual and common-law indemnification from O’Brien (see generally Zuckerman, 49 NY2d at 462). With respect to Freeway, we note that the contract between BSA and Freeway provided for indemnification of BSA regardless of whether BSA or Freeway was negligent. The contractual indemnification provision is unenforceable if BSA was itself negligent, however, and BSA failed to establish as a matter of law that it was not negligent (see General Obligations Law § 5-322.1 [1]; Borland v Sampson Steel Fabricators, 298 AD2d 831, 833-834 [2002]). Nor is BSA entitled to a conditional order of common-law indemnification from Freeway. Plaintiff did not allege that BSA is vicariously liable for the damages sought and, in any event, BSA failed to meet its initial burden of establishing that it was not negligent (see Edgewater Constr. Co. v 81 & 3 of Watertown, 252 AD2d 951, 952-953 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 814 [1998]). Finally, we conclude that the court properly denied the motion of O’Brien seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint and the cross claims of BSA and Freeway against it. Contrary to the contention of O’Brien, plaintiff may seek recovery from O’Brien based on O’Brien’s alleged affirmative acts of negligence even in the absence of privity of contract between plaintiff and O’Brien (see generally World Trade Knitting Mills v Lido Knitting Mills, 154 AD2d 99, 105-106 [1990]). With respect to the complaint and the cross claims of BSA, O’Brien failed to establish that it was not negligent in the design of the specifications used by Freeway and thus failed to establish its entitlement to judgment dismissing the complaint or those cross claims (see Zuckerman, 49 NY2d at 562). With respect to the cross claim of Freeway, O’Brien failed to include the answer of Freeway in support of its motion, and that failure requires denial of that part of the motion with respect to Freeway (see CPLR 3212 [b]; see generally Perez v Wickman [appeal No. 1], 298 AD2d 873, 873-874 [2002]). Present—Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Scudder and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Cayuga County (Corning, J.), entered May 1, 2002, which, inter alia, denied defendant’s motion to dismiss the action. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, and the matter is remitted to Supreme Court, Cayuga County, for further proceedings in accordance with the following memorandum: Plaintiffs decedent was employed at defendant hospital as a housekeeper. While at work, decedent ingested an anesthetic drug, allegedly to relieve symptoms from headaches and stress, and she died from a drug overdose. Plaintiff filed a workers’ compensation claim, but the Administrative Law Judge for the Workers’ Compensation Board (Board) issued a notice of decision stating: “No prima facie medical evidence. No further action is planned by the Board at this time.” Plaintiff thereafter commenced this wrongful death action. Defendant moved to dismiss the action on the grounds that plaintiff had failed to plead the lack of workers’ compensation benefits in her complaint and the action was barred by the exclusivity provisions of Workers’ Compensation Law § 11. Supreme Court denied the motion and permitted plaintiff to file and serve an amended complaint, the parties having agreed at oral argument of the motion that, “should the Court allow plaintiff to proceed, ... an amended complaint would be drafted” to plead the lack of workers’ compensation benefits. The pleading defect therefore was cured and thus, in denying the motion, the court implicitly determined that the action was not barred by Workers’ Compensation Law § 11. We now reverse. Plaintiff concedes that Workers’ Compensation Law § 11 generally prohibits an employee from bringing a personal injury action against his or her employer. As plaintiff correctly notes, however, “workmen’s compensation cannot be an exclusive remedy if it is no remedy at all” (O’Rourke v Long, 41 NY2d 219, 226 [1976]). It is well settled that “primary jurisdiction with respect to determinations as to the applicability of the Workers’ Compensation Law has been vested in the . . . Board and that it is therefore inappropriate for the courts to express views with respect thereto pending determination by the [B]oard” (Botwinick v Ogden, 59 NY2d 909, 911 [1983]; see O’Rourke, 41 NY2d at 228). “The determination of whether a case is truly closed for purposes of [the] Workers’ Compensation Law . . . is an issue of fact to be resolved by the Board, and its determination will not be disturbed if supported by substantial evidence .... Such a determination turns on whether further proceedings were contemplated at the time the matter was closed” (Jones v HSBC, 304 AD2d 864, 866 [2003]). Here, the issue whether the death of decedent occurred outside the scope of her employment “ ‘is a matter that must in the first instance be determined by the [B]oard’ ” (O’Rourke, 41 NY2d at 228). In our view, the decision of the Board is both nonfinal and silent with respect to that issue. Indeed, the phrase “at this time” implies that future action was anticipated. Thus, we conclude that the court erred in determining the motion to dismiss at this juncture. We therefore reverse the order and remit the matter to Supreme Court, Cayuga County, to determine defendant’s motion following the Board’s determination whether decedent died in the course of her employment (see id. at 227-228). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Pine, Wisner, Scudder and Kehoe, JJ.
Appeal from those parts of an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Murphy, J.), entered March 28, 2002, that, inter alia, denied in part the motions of defendant Michelin North America, Inc. for summary judgment seeking dismissal of the complaints against it. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced these actions seeking to recover damages arising out of the death of John T. Papworth (decedent). Decedent was killed in 1998 when the vehicle that he was driving, manufactured by defendant Landrover North America, Inc., spun out of control and rolled over several times, allegedly as a result of a tire blowout. The tire was allegedly manufactured by defendant Michelin North America, Inc. (MNA); however, MNA denies that it manufactured, sold or distributed the tire, and moved for summary judgment seeking dismissal of the complaints against it on that ground. Supreme Court denied the motions in part, and we affirm. In support of its motions, MNA submitted proof that markings on the blown tire indicate that it was manufactured in England by the Michelin Tyre Company, Ltd. (Michelin Tyre). Both MNA and Michelin Tyre are subsidiaries of Compagnie Générale des Etáblissements Michelin, of France. However, the assertions of MNA that it had not manufactured, sold or distributed that model tire were made only upon information and belief, and such assertions are insufficient to establish MNA’s entitlement to summary judgment (see Onondaga Soil Testing v Barton, Brown, Clyde & Loguidice, 69 AD2d 984 [1979]). Further, MNA also failed to establish that it had a corporate existence separate from Michelin Tyre when the subject tire was manufactured and sold. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Wisner, Hurlbutt and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Livingston County (Alonzo, J.), entered July 3, 2001, which denied petitioner’s objections to the order of the Hearing Examiner. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, and the matter is remitted to Family Court, Livingston County, for further proceedings on the petition in accordance with the following memorandum: Petitioner appeals from an order of Family Court denying his objections to the order of the Hearing Examiner. Petitioner sought downward modification of his child support and additional support obligations based on a change in circumstances, i.e., the former marital residence had been sold at foreclosure; one child had been emancipated; respondent’s income had increased; and petitioner had been unemployed for some time. He appeared with his attorney before the Hearing Examiner on the return date of his petition and, when he asked to speak, the Hearing Examiner replied, “No.” When his attorney suggested that petitioner speak, the Hearing Examiner stated, “Does he have any testimony he wants to give? We’re not just going to sit here and make statements.” The Hearing Examiner did not allow petitioner to respond and, instead, summarily denied petitioner’s request for modification. A hearing on a petition for modification of a support obligation need not follow any particular format (see Matter of Schwartz v Schwartz, 23 AD2d 204, 207 [1965]). We conclude, however, that the hearing herein was “inherently flawed” (Waby v Waby, 143 AD2d 506, 507 [1988]). Petitioner was not offered an opportunity to testify, nor was he permitted to present the sworn testimony of any other witnesses (see Family Ct Act § 433; Waby, 143 AD2d at 507). The cursory handling of this matter by the Hearing Examiner and her reliance on prior proceedings not contained in the record do not provide a substitute for the “meaningful hearing” to which petitioner is entitled (Schwartz, 23 AD2d at 207). We therefore reverse the order and remit this matter to Family Court, Livingston County, to conduct a hearing on the petition. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Mahoney, J.), entered July 31, 2002, which denied the motion of defendant Albert J. Urban seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint against him. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Supreme Court properly denied the motion of defendant Albert J. Urban seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint against him. Plaintiffs decedent was killed in a motor vehicle accident while a front-seat passenger in a vehicle driven by her husband, defendant Raymond J. Cooley (Cooley). Cooley turned left, crossing over two sets of double yellow lines that formed a turning median, in order to enter a restaurant, and his vehicle was struck by an oncoming vehicle driven by Urban. The motion of Urban for summary judgment was predicated upon his contention that Cooley’s negligence was the sole proximate cause of the accident. It is well established that there can be more than one proximate cause of an accident. Here, the fact that Cooley made a left-hand turn in front of Urban’s vehicle is not dispositive of the issue whether Urban failed to exercise reasonable care in proceeding toward the area where the accident occurred without slowing, despite seeing the Cooley vehicle exit its lane of travel and traverse the entire median before turning into Urban’s lane of traffic (see Deshaies v Prudential Rochester Realty, 302 AD2d 999, 1000 [2003]; Woolley v Coppola, 179 AD2d 991, 992 [1992]). “To meet his initial burden on the motion, [Urban] had to establish both that [Cooley’s] vehicle ‘suddenly entered the lane where [Urban] was operating [his vehicle] in a lawful and prudent manner and that there was nothing [Urban] could have done to avoid the collision’ ” (Fratangelo v Benson, 294 AD2d 880, 881 [2002]). Although we recognize that Urban was entitled to anticipate that the other driver would obey the traffic laws that required him to yield the right-of-way to Urban (see Galvin v Zacholl, 302 AD2d 965, 966 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 512 [2003]), in this case, we cannot conclude as a matter of law that Urban was not comparatively negligent (see Boston v Dunham, 274 AD2d 708, 710 [2000]). Urban’s own deposition testimony, submitted in support of the motion, raises an issue of fact whether Urban was negligent in failing to reduce his rate of speed or take some evasive action in an effort to avoid the accident (see King v Washburn, 273 AD2d 725, 726 [2000]). All concur except Scudder and Hayes, JJ., who dissent and vote to reverse in accordance with the following memorandum.
Appeal and cross appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Makowski, J.), entered June 14, 2002, which granted the petition in part and confirmed the arbitration award in part. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by denying respondent’s cross motion to vacate the arbitration award in its entirety, granting the petition to confirm the arbitration award in its entirety and ordering that judgment be entered in favor of petitioner in the amount of $306,700, plus interest at the rate of 5.18% accruing from March 15, 2001, together with the filing fee of $500 and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum; Supreme Court erred in failing to grant the petition to confirm the arbitration award in its entirety (see CPLR 7510). The parties submitted the entire matter in controversy to arbitration, including whether the Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry Registration (U-5 notice) filed by respondent with the National Association of Securities Dealers is absolutely privileged. Contrary to respondent’s contention, there is not “a well-defined constitutional, statutory or common law of this State” according U-5 notices absolute immunity in every circumstance (Matter of New York State Correctional Officers & Police Benevolent Assoc. v State of New York, 94 NY2d 321, 328 [1999]; compare Fahnestock & Co. v Waltman, 935 F2d 512 [1991], cert denied 502 US 942 [1991] [applying New York law], with Herzfeld & Stern v Beck, 175 AD2d 689 [1991], lv dismissed 79 NY2d 914 [1992], 82 NY2d 789 [1993]). Thus, public policy does not preclude-enforcement of the award (see Matter of New York City Tr. Auth. v Transport Workers Union of Am., 99 NY2d 1, 7 [2002]). In the absence of a record of the arbitration hearing, we are unable to consider respondent’s further contention that the award is wholly irrational in light of the evidence presented at the hearing (see Matter of Caprara Auto Sales [Wilcox], 288 AD2d 955 [2001]). We therefore modify the order by denying respondent’s cross motion to vacate the award in its entirety, granting the petition to confirm the award in its entirety and ordering that judgment be entered in favor of petitioner in the amount of $306,700, plus interest at the rate of 5.18% accruing from March 15, 2001, together with the filing fee of $500. Present—Wisner, J.P., Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from those parts of an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Michalek, J.), entered March 11, 2002, that, inter alia, granted defendants’ cross motion for summary judgment in part and dismissed the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order insofar as appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, the cross motion is denied in its entirety, the complaint is reinstated, the motion is granted in part, the affirmative defenses and counterclaim are dismissed and an injunction is granted in accordance with the following memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced this action seeking declaratory and injunctive relief to prohibit defendants from utilizing a portion of their property that is zoned residential for commercial purposes. The property, situated in the Town of Lancaster, is partially zoned for general business use and partially zoned for residential use. Defendants submitted an application for site plan approval to the Lancaster Town Planning Board in anticipation of erecting a retail center consisting of a 4,000-square-foot convenience store and gas station and a 3,500-square-foot space for retail stores. The plan called for using part of the residential portion of the property as a paved area for ingress and egress from a public street, with three light fixtures, an enclosed dumpster area and a detention pond. The Lancaster Town Board (Town Board) approved the plan and issued a building permit. While the building was being constructed, plaintiffs, three homeowners in the vicinity of the property, commenced this action. Supreme Court denied plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment and granted defendants’ cross motion for summary judgment in part and dismissed the complaint. We reverse. As a preliminary matter, we note that plaintiffs have standing to bring this lawsuit without pleading special damages because they are all in proximity to the subject property and the interest they assert in enjoining the nonpermitted use of the residential portion of the property is arguably within the zone of interest to be protected by the zoning ordinance (see Matter of Sun-Brite Car Wash v Board of Zoning & Appeals of Town of N. Hempstead, 69 NY2d 406, 412-414 [1987]; see also Matter of Michalak v Zoning Bd. of Appeals of Town of Pomfret, 286 AD2d 906 [2001]; Crady v Newcomb, 142 AD2d 940, 941 [1988]). We further note that, contrary to the contention of defendants, the Town Board is the proper local authority to serve with a demand to commence an enforcement proceeding against defendants (see Town Law § 268 [2]). Although Lancaster Town Code § 50-44 (A) (2) authorizes the building inspector to enforce the zoning ordinance, it merely grants him the authority to enter any building at a reasonable time for inspection and order discontinuance of violations of the ordinance; it does not grant him the power to commence enforcement proceedings. The power to commence enforcement proceedings for the violation of an ordinance is granted to the Town Board by Town Law § 135 (1). The building inspector could commence such an enforcement proceeding only with the authorization and at the direction of the Town Board (see § 65 [1]). We agree with plaintiffs that the residential portion of the property cannot be used as an accessory to the commercial portion of the property; the use of the residential lot for, inter alia, ingress and egress to the commercial enterprise and storage of garbage is “an integral and essential part of the business conducted on [the commercial portion]” and “may be enjoined as nonresidential” (City of Yonkers v Rentways, Inc., 304 NY 499, 503 [1952]; see People v Franshir Realty Co., 4 AD2d 685, 685-686 [1957]). Contrary to the contention of defendants, our decisions in Thompson v Erie County Indus. Dev. Agency (251 AD2d 1026 [1998]) and Passucci v Town of W. Seneca (151 AD2d 984 [1989]) are distinguishable from the instant case inasmuch as those cases both involved landlocked parcels that could not be reached without traversing an area zoned residential. Contrary to the further contention of defendants, Lancaster Town Code § 50-28 (F) (2) (c) (2), which allows the building inspector to issue a permit for parking, loading, or stacking in a residential zone accessory to a business zone, is not applicable here because there is no evidence in the record that defendants use the residential portion for parking, loading, or stacking. Defendants’ contention that the zoning ordinance renders the residential portion of the property valueless is not ripe for judicial review because defendants have not applied for a use variance (see Matter of Parkview Assoc. v City of New York, 71 NY2d 274, 283 [1988], rearg denied 71 NY2d 995 [1988], appeal dismissed and cert denied 488 US 801 [1988]). Thus, we enjoin defendants from using the north 87 feet of lot 16 for driveway access, a dumpster, lighting, and any other nonresidential purpose. Present—Wisner, J.P., Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Notaro, J.), entered September 5, 2002, which denied the petition seeking a permanent stay of arbitration and granted respondent’s cross motion to dismiss the petition. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, the cross motion is denied and the petition is granted. Memorandum: Respondent was injured in an automobile accident on May 24, 1998, but did not give petitioner notice of his supplemental uninsured motorist (SUM) claim until June 28, 2000. The insurance policy issued by petitioner to respondent required him to give notice of a SUM claim “[a]s soon as practicable,” i.e., “with reasonable promptness after [he] knew or should reasonably have known that the tortfeasor was underinsured” (Matter of Metropolitan Prop. & Cas. Ins. Co. v Mancuso, 93 NY2d 487, 495 [1999]). Petitioner sought a permanent stay of arbitration of respondent’s SUM claim, and respondent cross-moved to dismiss the petition. We conclude that Supreme Court should have granted the petition. Respondent failed to meet his burden of establishing a reasonable excuse for the more than two-year delay in giving notice (see Matter of State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Cos. [Proper], 300 AD2d 1095, 1095-1096 [2002]; Matter of Nationwide Ins. Co. v Montopoli, 262 AD2d 647 [1999]). “The nature and extent of respondent’s injury did not change from the time of the accident until the time when respondent provided petitioner with notice of the SUM claim” (Matter of New York Cent. Mut. Fire Ins. Co. [Moore], 280 AD2d 923, 924 [2001]; see Proper, 300 AD2d at 1096; cf. Matter of Travelers Ins. Co. [DeLosh], 249 AD2d 924, 925 [1998]). Nor did respondent demonstrate that he acted with due diligence in attempting to determine the insurance coverage of the tortfeasor (see Proper, 300 AD2d at 1096; Moore, 280 AD2d at 924). Respondent retained his attorney one month after the accident, but the record “does not reflect the efforts of that attorney, if any, to obtain the information necessary for respondent to make a claim for SUM benefits” at any time before May or June 2000 (Matter of Hartford Cas. Ins. Co. [Brody], 278 AD2d 830, 830-831 [2000]; cf. Matter of State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. [Hernandez], 275 AD2d 989, 990 [2000]), despite the fact that “[Respondent was aware of the identity of the tortfeasor on the day of the accident” (Moore, 280 AD2d at 924). We therefore reverse the order, deny respondent’s cross motion, and grant the petition seeking a permanent stay of arbitration. In view of our determination, there is no need to address petitioner’s remaining contentions. Present—Green, J.P, Pine, Wisner and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from those parts of an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Makowski, J.), entered December 5, 2002, that, inter alia, granted the cross motion of defendants Charles John Chew and Timothy Seel seeking summary judgment and dismissed the complaint against them. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed with costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff commenced this action to recover $50,000 allegedly remaining due pursuant to its agreements with defendants in settlement of prior lawsuits. Supreme Court properly denied that part of plaintiffs motion seeking summary judgment against defendants Charles John Chew and Timothy Seel and granted the cross motion of those defendants seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint against them. In construing the parties’ agreements, our “role is limited to interpretation and enforcement of the terms agreed to by the parties; it does not include the rewriting of their [agreements] and the imposition of additional terms” (Matter of Salvano v Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, 85 NY2d 173, 182 [1995]). With respect to the first and second causes of action, we conclude that, contrary to plaintiffs contention, the terms of the settlement agreement impose the obligation to pay the underlying debt only upon defendant Radiant Energy Corporation (Radiant). That agreement contains no language that may be fairly interpreted as a guarantee of Radiant’s obligation by Chew and Seel. We reject plaintiff’s contention that the December 12, 2001 letter was sufficient to invoke paragraph 5 (c) of the stock pledge agreement. With respect to the third and fourth causes of action, we conclude that Chew and Seel established as a matter of law that they did not breach the stock pledge agreement, and plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact (cf. Buhler v Maloney Consulting, 299 AD2d 190, 191-192 [2002]). Present— Green, J.P., Pine, Wisner and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Frazee, J.), entered September 6, 2002, which granted the motions of defendants Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corporation and Genesee Management, Inc. for summary judgment dismissing the complaints against them. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Supreme Court properly granted the motions of Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corporation (Burlington) and Genesee Management, Inc. (collectively, defendants) for summary judgment dismissing the complaints against them. Plaintiffs commenced these actions seeking damages for injuries allegedly sustained by Annette Lane (plaintiff) when she slipped and fell on water in an aisle of a store leased by Burlington. Defendants met their initial burden of establishing that they neither created the dangerous condition nor had actual or constructive notice of it (see Kovelsky v City Univ. of N.Y., 221 AD2d 234, 235 [1995]; Collins v Grand Union Co., 201 AD2d 852 [1994]). Plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of fact whether defendants had constructive notice of a recurring dangerous condition, inasmuch as they failed to establish that Burlington had knowledge that, on prior occasions, water had accumulated on the floor in the area where plaintiff fell (see Hammer v KMart Corp., 267 AD2d 1100 [1999], lv denied 95 NY2d 757 [2000]). In addition, plaintiffs failed to raise an issue of fact whether the water was apparent for a long enough period of time to permit Burlington’s employees to discover and remove it (see Gordon v American Museum of Natural History, 67 NY2d 836, 837-838 [1986]). Present—Hurlbutt, J.P., Scudder, Kehoe, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Monroe County (Bellini, J.) entered April 11, 2002, which adjudged that respondent is a juvenile delinquent and placed respondent on probation supervision for a period of 24 months. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Contrary to respondent’s contention, Family Court’s findings that respondent committed acts that if committed by an adult would constitute the crimes of gang assault in the second degree (Penal Law § 120.06), assault in the third degree (§ 120.00 [1]) and reckless endangerment in the second degree (§ 120.20), as both principal and accomplice (§ 20.00), are supported by legally sufficient evidence and are not against the weight of the evidence. In reaching its findings, the court considered, inter alia, the testimony of the victim that respondent, along with several other young men, attacked him outside the school they all attended, and the testimony of respondent denying that he participated in the attack. Although different findings would not have been unreasonable, we conclude that the court did not fail to give the evidence the weight it should be accorded (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]), and we decline to disturb the court’s credibility determination. The evidence adduced at the dispositional hearing is also legally sufficient to support the findings that respondent: (1) intended to cause physical injury to the victim and inflicted serious physical injury with the aid of at least two other persons actually present (§ 120.06); (2) intended to cause physical injury to the victim (§ 120.00 [1]); and (3) engaged in conduct that created a substantial risk of serious physical injury to the victim (§ 120.20). Additionally, there is ample evidence in the record establishing that the victim sustained a serious physical injury (see People v Taylor, 276 AD2d 933, 935 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 788 [2001]; Matter of Veronica R., 268 AD2d 287, 288 [2000]; People v Sekoll, 254 AD2d 797, 798 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 1053 [1999]). As a result of the attack, the victim obtained medical treatment at two hospitals and was hospitalized for six nights. His eye was swollen shut and he was unable to move it from side to side for approximately one week. Finally, his eyesight was still impaired at the time of the delinquency hearing, which was conducted 41 days after the attack. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Pine, Scudder and Hayes, JJ.
CPLR article 78 proceeding transferred to this Court by an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Galloway, J.), entered November 22, 2002, seeking to annul a determination of respondent after a hearing. It is hereby ordered that the determination be and the same hereby is modified on the law and in the exercise of discretion by granting the petition in part and reducing the penalty to suspension without pay and benefits for two years, retroactive to March 13, 2002, and as modified the determination is confirmed without costs. Memorandum: Petitioners, Maison Scahill and John M. Starr, commenced separate CPLR article 78 proceedings, subsequently transferred to this Court and consolidated for review, against respondent, Greece Central School District, their former employer. Petitioners seek to annul the respective determinations finding them guilty of disciplinary charges following hearings held pursuant to Civil Service Law § 75, contending that such determinations are not supported by substantial evidence (see CPLR 7803 [4]). Petitioners further seek to annul the penalty of termination imposed upon each of them on the ground that such penalty constituted an abuse of discretion (see 7803 [3]). Upon our review of the record, we conclude that substantial evidence supports the determinations that petitioners were guilty of misconduct in distributing cigarettes to fellow employees during the workday, on respondent’s property, and while misusing their employer-assigned vehicle (see generally Matter of Suitor v Keller, 256 AD2d 1140 [1998]). We conclude, however, that it was an abuse of discretion to terminate petitioners’ employment. The penalty of termination is so disproportionate to the offense, in light of all of the . circumstances, as to shock one’s sense of fairness (see Matter of Pell v Board of Educ. of Union Free School Dist. No. 1 of Towns of Scarsdale & Mamaroneck, Westchester County, 34 NY2d 222, 234-235 [1974]; Matter of Brown v Murphy, 275 AD2d 931, 932 [2000]; Suitor, 256 AD2d 1140 [1998]). Petitioners have, respectively, 12 years and 17 years of unblemished service with respondent, most recently as maintenance mechanics. Their misconduct consisted almost entirely of distributing to fellow employees cartons of cigarettes purchased on an Indian reservation by one of the petitioners at the request of those fellow employees. There is no evidence that petitioners profited from the transactions. We thus cannot agree with respondent’s characterization of such conduct as “trafficking” in untaxed cigarettes, nor can we agree with respondent’s assertion that termination is warranted based on the effect of petitioners’ conduct in depriving New York State of tax revenue. We further disagree with respondent that petitioners’ conduct placed respondent at any realistic risk of losing grant money distributed under the Federal Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act (20 USC § 7101 et seq.). Further, there is no evidence that the distribution of cigarettes was known to the students or in any way harmful to their interests (cf. Matter of Will v Frontier Cent. School Dist. Bd. of Educ., 97 NY2d 690, 691 [2002]). Nonetheless, the misconduct resulted in some, albeit minimal, misappropriation of time during the workday and involved a misuse of respondent’s facilities. We therefore conclude that the maximum penalty warranted in each of these matters is a suspension without pay and benefits for two years, retroactive to March 13, 2002, and in the exercise of our discretion we reduce the penalty accordingly (see Brown, 275 AD2d at 932; Suitor, 256 AD2d 1140 [1998]; see also Matter of Mitthauer v Patterson, 8 NY2d 37, 41-42 [I960]). All concur except Pigott, Jr., P.J., and Hurlbutt, J., who dissent in part and vote to confirm in the following memorandum.
Appeal and cross appeal from a judgment (denominated order) of Supreme Court, Erie County (Mahoney, J), entered July 24, 2002, which granted petitioner’s Freedom of Information Law requests in part and denied them in part. It is hereby ordered that the case is held, the decision is reserved and the matter is remitted to Supreme Court, Erie County, for further proceedings in accordance with the following memorandum: Following the conviction of petitioner’s husband of murder in the second degree (People v Pennington, 217 AD2d 919 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 906 [1995]), petitioner and her husband each filed Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) requests with the Erie County District Attorney’s office seeking records concerning the criminal investigation that led to the conviction. We recently affirmed the judgment denying the husband’s requests (Matter of Pennington v Clark, 307 AD2d 756 [2003]). Respondents appeal and petitioner cross-appeals from a judgment granting petitioner’s requests in part and denying them in part (Matter of Pennington v Clark, 194 Misc 2d 381 [2002]). Supreme Court erred in deciding the matter on the merits without determining whether the proceeding was timely commenced. The court saw no purpose in deciding that issue because it determined that, even if the proceeding was barred by the statute of limitations, nothing would preclude petitioner from submitting a subsequent FOIL request for the same information and commencing a subsequent proceeding challenging the denial of that request. We disagree. “[I]f two FOIL requests are duplicative, the court may dismiss the proceeding challenging a determination of the latter request, as a belated attempt to seek judicial review of the denial of the first request” (Matter of Greene v City of New York, 196 Misc 2d 125, 130 [2003]; see Matter of Kelly v New York City Police Dept., 286 AD2d 581 [2001]). Inasmuch as the record is insufficient for us to determine the issue of timeliness as a matter of law, we hold the case, reserve decision and remit the matter to Supreme Court, Erie County, to determine whether the instant proceeding was timely commenced {see CPLR former 304) and to conduct an evidentiary hearing, if needed. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment (denominated judgment and order) of Supreme Court, Erie County (Cosgrove, J.), entered January 15, 2003, which dismissed the CPLR article 78 petition on the merits. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding seeking a judgment declaring that she had acquired tenure by estoppel as a teacher in the Buffalo public school system, voiding the termination of her appointment on May 22, 2002, and directing respondents to reinstate her to a full-time teaching position. Supreme Court dismissed the petition on the merits, and we affirm. The claims of petitioner that she attained tenure by estoppel by either September 1993, September 1994, or September 1995 are barred by the statute of limitations (see CPLR 217; see also Matter of Lubin v Board of Educ. of City of N.Y., 60 NY2d 974, 976 [1983], rearg denied 61 NY2d 905, 62 NY2d 803 [1984], cert denied 469 US 823 [1984]). We reject the contention of petitioner that her petition filed on August 30, 2002 is timely with respect to those claims because respondents’ determination denying her tenure did not become final and binding on her until May 22, 2002. With respect to the contentions of petitioner that she acquired tenure by estoppel in September 1993 or September 1994 (see generally Matter of Gould v Board of Educ. of Sewanhaka Cent. High School Dist., 81 NY2d 446, 451), petitioner became aggrieved by respondents’ determinations concerning her tenure status, and thus the determinations became final and binding for purposes of the statute of limitations when she was appointed to probationary positions during those years. With respect to her contention that she acquired tenure by estoppel in September 1995, petitioner was aggrieved by respondents’ determination for purposes of the statute of limitations, at the earliest, when she was terminated on August 23, 1995, or at the latest, when an arbitrator overturned the termination in January 1998 and reinstated petitioner for a final year of probationary service. The fact that petitioner was thereafter denied tenure in accordance with statutory procedure (see Education Law § 3012 [2]) is of no consequence to her contention concerning tenure by estoppel. Therefore, any claims of petitioner that she acquired tenure by estoppel prior to April 30, 2002 have been extinguished by the statute of limitations. We also reject the contention of petitioner that she acquired tenure by estoppel during the 2001-2002 academic year. Pursuant to a prior arbitration award, that academic year was to be petitioner’s final year of probationary teaching. At the end of that year, respondents lawfully terminated petitioner (see id.), and thus respondents did not permit her to continue to teach beyond the expiration of her probationary term (cf. Gould, 81 NY2d at 451). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims (NeMoyer, J.), entered May 22, 2002, which dismissed the claim after a trial. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Claimant commenced this action, pro se, alleging that correction officers used excessive force on him while he was an inmate at Attica Correctional Facility. We exercise our discretion to treat the appeal as taken from the judgment dismissing the claim, entered after claimant took an appeal from the decision of the Court of Claims (see CPLR 5520 [c]; Hughes v Nussbaumer, Clarke & Velzy, 140 AD2d 988 [1988]). We reject the contention of claimant that he established his claim by a preponderance of the evidence. “While it is well settled that this Court has the authority to independently consider the weight of the evidence on an appeal in a nonjury case, deference is still afforded to the findings of the Court of Claims where, as here, they are based largely on credibility determinations” (Burton v State of New York, 283 AD2d 875, 877 [2001]). Claimant failed to offer certain documents in evidence and thus has failed to preserve for our review his contention that the court erred in refusing to admit those documents in evidence. We have reviewed claimant’s remaining contention and conclude that it is without merit. Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
CPLR article 78 proceeding transferred to this Court by an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Galloway, J.), entered November 22, 2002, seeking to annul a determination of respondent after a hearing. It is hereby ordered that the determination be and the same hereby is modified on the law and in the exercise of discretion by granting the petition in part and reducing the penalty to suspension without pay and benefits for two years, retroactive to March 13, 2002, and as modified the determination is confirmed without costs. Same memorandum as in Matter of Scahill v Greece Cent. School Dist. (1 AD3d 909 [2003]). All concur except Pigott, Jr., P.J., and Hurlbutt, J., who dissent in part and vote to confirm in the same dissenting memorandum as in Matter of Scahill v Greece Cent. School Dist. (1 AD3d 909, 911 [2003]). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal and cross appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Seneca County (Falvey, J.), entered July 25, 2002, which, inter alia, denied plaintiffs cross motion for partial summary judgment on liability. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by granting that part of the motion of defendant Julie Marra, individually and in her representative capacity of the County of Seneca, seeking dismissal of the claim for punitive damages and dismissing that claim against her and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff appeals and defendant Julie Marra, a foster care worker for defendant Seneca County Department of Social Services (DSS), cross-appeals from parts of an order that, inter alia, denied plaintiffs cross motion for partial summary judgment on liability and denied in part the motion of Marra for summary judgment dismissing the amended complaint against her. This matter arises from the death of plaintiffs decedent, four-year-old Angelica Pesante, on March 18, 1997. The child had been placed with one younger half-sibling in the foster home of defendants Susan Mundell and Melvin Mundell by DSS on an emergency basis on January 31, 1997. A second half-sibling, age one, was hospitalized until February 18, 1997, when he was placed in the same foster home. On March 5, 1997, Angelica sustained bruises and a broken tooth at the foster home. According to Angelica, the injuries, for which she received medical care, were caused by her 2V2-year-old half-brother after she started a fight with him. Susan Mundell was vacuuming elsewhere in the home when that incident occurred. On March 17 and/or March 18, 1997, Angelica sustained injuries at the foster home that resulted in her death on March 18. The autopsy report in the record originally stated that the cause of death was “blunt trauma to head and abdomen” and that the manner of death was “Pending further investigation.” The autopsy report was thereafter changed to state that the manner of death was “Accidental” and was changed again to “pending investigation.” We conclude that Supreme Court properly denied that part of plaintiffs cross motion for partial summary judgment on liability against each defendant based on the alleged violation of the certificate to board issued to the Mundells by the New York State Department of Social Services in conformity with 18 NYCRR former 444.3 (b) as well as the alleged violations of 18 NYCRR former 444.5 (c) (3) and the boarding home agreement between the Mundells and DSS. Pursuant to 18 NYCRR former 444.3 (b), the certificate to board was required to specify the maximum number of children to be boarded, and here the certificate to board authorized a maximum of four foster children in the home. It is undisputed that, at the time Angelica died, five foster children had been placed there. In addition, both 18 NYCRR former 444.5 (c) (3) and the boarding home agreement between DSS and the Mundells require adult supervision of foster children under the age of 10. It is undisputed that Marra took Angelica to see a psychologist on March 17, and then left Angelica at the foster home without adult supervision. Marra and Susan Mundell had agreed to that arrangement in advance, with the understanding that Melvin Mundell would be present after a short time. Defendant Emmanuel Mundell, age 13, and a female foster child, age 11, were present along with Angelica and her siblings, ages 2V2 and 1, and a 10-month-old unrelated foster child. While it is undisputed that those violations occurred, the court properly determined that plaintiff had failed to establish as a matter of law that any of those violations by any defendant was a proximate cause of Angelica’s injuries or death. The court also properly denied that part of plaintiffs cross motion for partial summary judgment on liability against the Mundells based on their alleged neglect of Angelica pursuant to Family Ct Act § 1012 (f) (i) (A), by failing to provide her with medical care on March 17 and 18, 1997. We agree with the court that plaintiff failed to establish that she is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against the Mundells based on their alleged neglect. Plaintiffs cross motion for partial summary judgment on liability also sought dismissal of all affirmative defenses. Plaintiff contends on appeal that the court should have dismissed the affirmative defenses of comparative negligence and assumption of the risk asserted with respect to Angelica because the child was non sui juris. We conclude that plaintiff has not established entitlement to such relief as a matter of law. Whether Angelica, described in the record as a bright four-year-old child, was non sui juris is an issue of fact (see Tenebruso v Toys “R” Us NYTEX, 256 AD2d 1236 [1998]). The court also properly granted those parts of the motions of DSS and defendant County of Seneca (collectively, County defendants) and defendant Stacey M. Haust, a DSS child protective caseworker, seeking dismissal of plaintiff’s claims under Social Services Law § 420 for failure to report suspected child abuse or maltreatment to the statewide central register. Social Services Law § 420 provides for criminal liability when a mandated reporter “willfully” fails to report a case of suspected child abuse or maltreatment and for civil liability when a mandated reporter “knowingly and willfully” fails to do so. We agree with the court that the County defendants and Haust established by proof in admissible form that they did not knowingly and willfully fail to report suspected child abuse or maltreatment, and plaintiff failed to raise an issue of fact. On her cross appeal, Marra contends that the court erred in denying that part of her motion for summary judgment seeking dismissal of the claim for punitive damages against her. “The nature of the conduct [that] will justify an award of punitive damages has been variously described but, essentially, it is conduct ‘having a high degree of moral culpability’ ... or activated by an evil and reprehensible motive . . . [that] manifests a ‘conscious disregard of the rights of others or conduct so reckless as to amount to such disregard’ ” (Sweeney v McCormick, 159 AD2d 832, 834 [1990]). Marra established by evidence in admissible form that as a matter of law her conduct did not rise to the requisite level to warrant the imposition of punitive damages, and plaintiff failed to raise an issue of fact. We therefore modify the order by granting that part of the motion of Marra seeking dismissal of the claim for punitive damages and dismissing that claim against her. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ, Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ. [See 2002 NY Slip Op 40503 (U).]
Appeals from an order of Supreme Court, Allegany County (Euken, J.), entered October 9, 2002, which denied defendants’ motion and cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the first amended complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by granting the motion of defendant R.C. Billings, Inc. and dismissing the first amended complaint against it and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff commenced this action to recover damages for allegedly serious injuries he sustained when the vehicle he was operating was rear-ended by a vehicle owned and operated by defendant Robert A. White. Plaintiff sued both White and defendant R.C. Billings, Inc. (Billings), a contractor on a paving project on the road where the accident occurred, alleging that Billings was negligent in failing to provide proper and adequate traffic control signs and flagpersons. Billings moved for summary judgment on the ground that none of its alleged acts or omissions was a proximate cause of the accident, and White cross-moved for summary judgment on the ground that plaintiff did not suffer a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Supreme Court denied both the motion and cross motion. The court erred in denying the motion of Billings for summary judgment dismissing the first amended complaint against it. Billings met its initial burden on the motion by submitting the deposition testimony of White, which established that Billings did not proximately cause the accident. White testified that he maintained continuous visual contact with plaintiffs vehicle as it slowed to a stop in front of him until a piece of paper flew in front of his face and he glanced to see what it was. White then struck plaintiff’s vehicle, which was stopped behind another vehicle because of the road work. White further testified that, had he not been distracted by the piece of paper, he would have been able to stop before hitting plaintiffs vehicle. In opposition, plaintiff submitted proof that Billings was negligent in failing to provide adequate signáge and traffic control by flagpersons. That proof, however, does not address the issue of causation, and thus is insufficient to defeat Billings’ motion for summary judgment (see Tucker v Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Buffalo, 265 AD2d 819, 820-821 [1999]; Lugo v Brentwood Union Free School Dist., 212 AD2d 582, 583 [1995]; see also Mendez v Town of Islip, 307 AD2d 917 [2003]). A showing of negligence is not enough; there must also be proof that the negligence was a proximate cause of the event that produced the harm (see Sheehan v City of New York, 40 NY2d 496, 501 [1976]). We therefore modify the order by granting the motion of Billings and dismissing the first amended complaint against it. The court properly denied, however, the cross motion of White for summary judgment dismissing the first amended complaint against him. White met his initial burden of establishing that plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) by submitting the affirmation and report of the physician who performed a medical examination of plaintiff on behalf of White. That physician opined that plaintiff has no disability or medical restrictions that are causally related to the accident. In opposition, however, plaintiff submitted proof consisting of medical evidence containing objective medical findings and diagnostic tests indicating that plaintiff sustained a qualifying injury (see Tankersley v Szesnat, 235 AD2d 1010, 1012 [1997]), including physician reports, chiropractic records, two MRI reports, and an affirmation from his treating physician. That proof was sufficient to raise triable issues of fact whether plaintiff sustained a serious injury under the 90/180-day (see Dumont v Peterson Trust, 307 AD2d 709, 711 [2003]; Bowen v Dunn, 306 AD2d 929, 929-930 [2003]), significant limitation of use (see Parkhill v Cleary, 305 AD2d 1088, 1089 [2003]; Tornabene v Pawlewski, 305 AD2d 1025 [2003]; cf. Bowen, 306 AD2d at 930), and permanent consequential limitation of use (see Parkhill, 305 AD2d at 1089; Tornabene, 305 AD2d at 1025) categories of the statute (see Pittman v Rickard, 295 AD2d 1003, 1003-1004 [2002]). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal and cross appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Galloway, J.), entered November 4, 2002, which, inter alia, granted in part defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the amended complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by denying those parts of defendants’ motion with respect to the second cause of action and the fifth cause of action insofar as it alleges an equal protection claim and reinstating the second cause of action in its entirety and the equal protection claim and granting those parts of defendants’ motion with respect to the first and fourth causes of action and dismissing the first and fourth causes of action and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff commenced this action against defendants Town of Rush and two of its officials, Donald Knab and Frank Kachala, seeking to recover damages for defendants’ alleged deprivation of plaintiffs property rights. Plaintiff appeals and defendants cross-appeal from an order granting in part defendants’ motion for summary judgment dismissing the amended complaint. On plaintiffs appeal, we conclude that Supreme Court erred in granting that part of defendants’ motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the fifth cause of action, brought pursuant to 42 USC § 1983, insofar as it alleges that plaintiffs right to equal protection was violated by various wrongful actions by defendants. The basic guarantee of the Equal Protection Clause is that government will act evenhandedly in allocating the benefits and burdens prescribed by law and will not, without at least a rational basis, treat similarly situated persons differently or disparately (see City of Cleburne v Cleburne Living Ctr., 473 US 432, 439 [1985]; Plyler v Doe, 457 US 202, 216 [1982]). Indeed, the purpose of the Equal Protection Clause “is to secure every person within the State’s jurisdiction against intentional and arbitrary discrimination, whether occasioned by express terms of a statute or by its improper execution through duly constituted agents” of the government (Village of Willowbrook v Olech, 528 US 562, 564 [2000] [internal quotation marks omitted]; see Sioux City Bridge Co. v Dakota County, 260 US 441, 445 [1923]; Sunday Lake Iron Co. v Township of Wakefield, 247 US 350, 352 [1918]). An equal protection claim may be “brought by a ‘class of one,’ where the plaintiff alleges that she has been intentionally treated differently from others similarly situated and that there is no rational basis for the difference in treatment” (Olech, 528 US at 564, citing Sioux City Bridge Co., 260 US at 441; Allegheny Pittsburgh Coal Co. v County Commn. of Webster County, W. Va., 488 US 336 [1989]). Plaintiff alleges that she was denied equal protection by defendants’ conduct in seeking to enforce inapplicable building code and certificate of occupancy requirements against her; in subjecting plaintiff to groundless prosecutions; in confiscating certain personal property of plaintiff; and in harassing plaintiff and otherwise interfering with her enjoyment of her property rights. Plaintiffs allegations fairly imply that similarly situated property owners are not subjected to such treatment and that defendants lacked a rational basis for their disparate treatment of plaintiff. We thus conclude that those allegations adequately state an equal protection claim {see Olech, 528 US at 564). In seeking summary judgment, defendants failed to demonstrate that they treat other similarly situated property owners as they allegedly have treated plaintiff. Even assuming, arguendo, that defendants met their initial burden, we conclude that plaintiff raised a triable issue of fact with regard to whether she has suffered disparate treatment at the hands of defendants. We therefore modify the order by denying that part of defendants’ motion with respect to the fifth cause of action insofar as it alleges an equal protection claim and reinstating that claim. We further conclude that the court erred in granting that part of defendants’ motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the second cause of action, for malicious prosecution, insofar as it is predicated on the first set of criminal charges lodged against plaintiff. To recover for malicious prosecution, plaintiff must establish that a criminal proceeding was commenced or continued against her without probable cause, that the proceeding was brought out of actual malice, and that the proceeding was terminated in favor of plaintiff (see Martinez v City of Schenectady, 97 NY2d 78, 84 [2001]; Martin v City of Albany, 42 NY2d 13, 16 [1977]; Broughton v State of New York, 37 NY2d 451, 457 [1975], cert denied sub nom. Schanbarger v Kellogg, 423 US 929 [1975]). Here, defendants sought summary judgment on the ground that the first set of criminal charges was terminated either by an adjournment in contemplation of dismissal or pursuant to an agreement between plaintiff and defendants, her accusers. We agree with defendants that either such disposition, if established, would constitute a termination not in plaintiffs favor (see Martinez, 97 NY2d at 84; Cantalino v Danner, 96 NY2d 391, 395 [2001]; Hollender v Trump Vil. Coop., 58 NY2d 420, 424-426 [1983]; Tzambazis v City of New York, 291 AD2d 397 [2002]; see Manti v New York City Tr. Auth., 165 AD2d 373, 380-381 [1991]). However, both plaintiff and her counsel at the time have averred, on personal knowledge, that the first prosecution was not terminated by either compromise or an adjournment in contemplation of dismissal. Moreover, County Court’s order determining plaintiff’s appeal from “convictions” made no mention of either a compromise or an adjournment in contemplation of dismissal. Instead, it expressly “granted” plaintiff’s appeal and “reversed and vacated” plaintiff’s “convictions” and the “Order and Conditions of Conditional Discharge” imposed thereon. Plaintiff thus has raised a triable issue of fact with regard to whether the first set of criminal charges terminated in her favor. We therefore further modify the order by denying that part of defendants’ motion with respect to the second cause of action and reinstating that cause of action in its entirety. On defendants’ cross appeal, we conclude that the court erred in denying that part of defendants’ motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the first cause of action, for inverse condemnation. A finding of inverse condemnation or de facto taking requires a “showing that the government has intruded onto the . . . property and interfered with the owner’s property rights to such a degree that the conduct amounts to a constitutional taking requiring the government to purchase the property from the owner” (O’Brien v City of Syracuse, 54 NY2d 353, 357 [1981]). A de facto taking can consist of either a permanent ouster of the owner, or a permanent interference with the owner’s physical use, possession, and enjoyment of the property, by one having condemnation powers (see Mickel v State of New York, 77 AD2d 794 [1980], affd 54 NY2d 858 [1981]; Feder v Village of Monroe, 283 AD2d 548, 549 [2001], citing City of Buffalo v Clement Co., 28 NY2d 241 [1971], rearg denied 29 NY2d 640 [1971]; Hylan Flying Servs. v State of New York, 54 AD2d 278, 280 [1976], lv dismissed 40 NY2d 809 [1977]; see also Sarnelli v City of New York, 256 AD2d 399, 400 [1998], lv denied 93 NY2d 804, 958 [1999]; Matter of Ward v Bennett, 214 AD2d 741 [1995]). In order to constitute a permanent ouster, “defendant[s’] conduct must constitute a permanent physical occupation of plaintiff’s property amounting to the exercise of dominion and control thereof” (Reiss v Consolidated Edison Co., 228 AD2d 59, 61 [1996], appeal dismissed 89 NY2d 1085 [1997] , lv denied 90 NY2d 807 [1997], cert denied 522 US 1113 [1998] ; see Clement Co., 28 NY2d at 253-255). Here, defendants demonstrated as a matter of law that their conduct did not constitute a permanent physical occupation of plaintiffs property, and plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact (see Reiss, 228 AD2d at 61). We therefore further modify the order by granting that part of defendants’ motion with respect to the first cause of action and dismissing that cause of action. We further conclude that the court erred in denying that part of defendants’ motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the fourth cause of action, for tortious interference with contract. The essential elements of that cause of action are the existence of a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party, defendants’ knowledge of that contract, defendants’ intentional procurement of the third party’s breach of that contract without justification, and damages (see Lama Holding Co. v Smith Barney, 88 NY2d 413, 424 [1996]; Kronos, Inc. v AVX Corp., 81 NY2d 90, 94 [1993]; Israel v Wood Dolson Co., 1 NY2d 116, 120 [1956]). The record establishes as a matter of law that plaintiff had no enforceable leases with her tenants, and thus defendants could not have procured any breach thereof (see R.S.A. Distribs. v Milford Plaza Assoc., 209 AD2d 329 [1994]; cf. Ingle v Glamore Motor Sales, 73 NY2d 183, 188-189 [1989]; Matter of Williams v County of Genesee, 306 AD2d 865, 868 [2003]; Ameral v Johnson, 194 AD2d 976, 976-977 [1993]; Hurwitch v Kercull, 182 AD2d 1013, 1014 [1992]). We therefore further modify the order by granting that part of defendants’ motion with respect to the fourth cause of action and dismissing that cause of action. We have considered the parties’ remaining contentions and conclude that they are without merit. Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J, Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal and cross appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Murphy, J.), entered July 1, 2002, which, inter alia, denied defendant’s motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint and denied in part plaintiffs’ motion seeking summary judgment. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by granting defendant’s motion in part and dismissing the complaint with respect to the category of serious injury of permanent loss of use of a body organ, member, function or system within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced this action seeking damages for injuries allegedly sustained by Patricia A. Leahey (plaintiff) when the vehicle she was driving collided with a vehicle driven by defendant. Plaintiffs appeal and defendant cross-appeals from an order denying that part of plaintiffs’ motion seeking summary judgment on liability and dismissal of the affirmative defense of comparative negligence and denying defendant’s motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint on the ground that plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Supreme Court properly denied that part of defendant’s motion with respect to the categories of significant limitation of use of a body function or system and permanent consequential limitation of use of a body organ or member. With respect to those two categories of serious injury, “[wjhether a limitation of use or function is significant or consequential (i.e., important . . .) relates to medical significance and involves a comparative determination of the degree or qualitative nature of an injury based on the normal function, purpose and use of the body part” (Toure v Avis Rent A Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345, 353 [2002] [internal quotation marks omitted]). There must be objective proof of a plaintiff’s injury (see id. at 350). In addition, the expert must provide either “a numeric percentage of a plaintiffs loss of range of motion” or a “qualitative assessment of a plaintiffs condition . . ., provided that the evaluation has an objective basis and compares the plaintiffs limitations to the normal function, purpose and use of the affected body organ, member, function or system” (id.). Although defendant met her initial burden, plaintiffs raised triable issues of fact by submitting the affidavits of plaintiffs physician and chiropractor, along with their accompanying reports. Both doctors relied upon objective evidence to support their findings and provided numeric percentages of plaintiffs loss of range of motion as well as qualitative assessments of plaintiffs condition. They opined that plaintiffs injuries were permanent, and plaintiff’s chiropractor opined that plaintiffs injuries were significant. The court also properly denied that part of defendant’s motion with respect to the 90/180 category of serious injury. With respect to that category, there must be evidence that plaintiffs activities were curtailed to a great extent (see Licari v Elliott, 57 NY2d 230, 236 [1982]; Sands v Stark, 299 AD2d 642, 642-643 [2002]). In addition, there must be objective evidence of “a medically determined injury or impairment of a non-permanent nature” (Insurance Law § 5102 [d]; see Nitti v Clerrico, 98 NY2d 345, 357 [2002]; Sands, 299 AD2d at 642-643). We conclude, based on the evidence in the record before us, that there is a triable issue of fact with respect to that category of serious injury. We further conclude, however, that the court erred in denying that part of defendant’s motion with respect to the category of permanent loss of use of a body organ, member, function or system. Plaintiffs concede on appeal that plaintiff did not sustain a serious injury under that category, and thus we modify the order accordingly. Finally, the court properly denied that part of plaintiffs’ motion seeking summary judgment on liability and dismissal of the affirmative defense of comparative negligence. Although plaintiffs established that defendant was negligent based on her violation of Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1123 (b) (see generally McKenna v Ether, 177 AD2d 756, 759 [1991]), they failed to establish that plaintiff was not negligent or that her negligence, if any, was not a proximate cause of the accident (cf. Webber v Bleiler, 270 AD2d 933 [2000]). Plaintiff made a left-hand turn in front of defendant’s vehicle, and she offered no explanation for her failure to see defendant’s vehicle on the shoulder of the highway. Moreover, plaintiffs failed to establish that plaintiff sustained a serious injury as a matter of law, a necessary element of a finding of liability (see Ruzycki v Baker, 301 AD2d 48, 51-52 [2002]). Plaintiffs thus failed to meet their initial burden of establishing their entitlement to judgment on liability or to dismissal of the affirmative defense of comparative negligence. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County (NeMoyer, J.), entered July 3, 2002, which dismissed the complaint upon a special jury verdict. It is hereby ordered that said appeal insofar as taken by plaintiff Laurel O’Connell be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed and the judgment is reversed on the law without costs, the motion is granted, judgment is granted to plaintiff Michael O’Connell on liability and a new trial is granted on damages only. Memorandum: Plaintiffs appeal from a judgment dismissing the amended complaint. The only claim submitted to the jury was based on the alleged violation of Labor Law § 240 (1). The jury found that the actions of Michael O’Connell (plaintiff) were the sole substantial factor in bringing about his injury in falling from a scaffold. We note at the outset that the appeal insofar as taken by plaintiff Laurel O’Connell must be dismissed because she withdrew her only cause of action before the case was submitted to the jury. We agree with plaintiff that Supreme Court erred in denying plaintiffs’ motion for judgment on liability notwithstanding the verdict. The jury was charged without objection that “only if you find that the defendant has established that the sole substantial factor in causing plaintiffs injuries or his fall was the plaintiffs misuse of the scaffolding can you find that the plaintiff is not entitled to recover for his injuries resulting from the fall.” The record contains no evidence that plaintiff misused the scaffolding (cf. Heffeman v Bais Corp., 294 AD2d 401, 403 [2002]). We therefore grant plaintiffs’ postverdict motion, grant judgment to plaintiff on liability, and grant a new trial on damages only. In view of our determination, there is no need to address plaintiff’s remaining contentions. Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Monroe County Court (Schwartz, J.), entered June 18, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of assault in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733, 737 [1998]). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Onondaga County Court (Aloi, J.), entered April 25, 2002, convicting defendant following a jury trial of, inter alia, manslaughter in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: On appeal from a judgment convicting him following a jury trial of manslaughter in the first degree (Penal Law § 125.20 [1]) and criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree (§ 265.03), defendant contends, inter alia, that the conviction is not supported by legally sufficient evidence and that the verdict is against the weight of the evidence. Specifically, defendant contends that the People failed to disprove the defense of justification beyond a reasonable doubt. We disagree. An essential element of the justification defense is that defendant was unable to retreat from the encounter safely (see § 35.15 [2] [a]; People v Magliato, 68 NY2d 24, 26 [1986]). Here, viewed in the light most favorable to the People, the testimony of prosecution witnesses establishes that, although the victim was the first person to brandish a gun, he put the gun away before any shots were fired. Thereafter, defendant retreated to his vehicle, reached inside and returned with a gun. Defendant then began shooting his weapon first, and the victim returned fire. Based on that testimony, the jury could reasonably have found that “defendant could have safely retreated without killing [the victim]” (People v White, 168 AD2d 962, 963 [1990], lv denied 77 NY2d 968 [1991]). We therefore conclude that the conviction is supported by legally sufficient evidence (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). “According great deference to the jury’s determination after viewing the [evidence],” we further conclude that the verdict rejecting defendant’s justification defense is not against the weight of the evidence (People v Lanier, 275 AD2d 937, 937 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 736 [2001]; see generally Bleakley, 69 NY2d at 495). We reject the further contention of defendant that he was denied his rights to a fair trial and due process by the prosecutor’s failure to disclose the addresses and telephone numbers of potential prosecution witnesses. There is no statutory basis to compel such disclosure (see CPL 240.20 [1]; People v Izquierdo, 292 AD2d 247 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 698 [2002]), and County Court did not abuse its discretion in denying such disclosure where, as here, defense counsel had ample opportunity to subpoena the witnesses but failed to do so. Having failed to search out the witnesses, defendant failed to demonstrate that he had a “material need” for the information requested (People v Miller, 106 AD2d 787, 788 [1984]; see People v Swanson, 234 AD2d 896 [1996], lv denied 89 NY2d 1041 [1997]). Defendant’s contention that the failure to disclose the witness information constitutes a Brady violation because the addresses and telephone numbers may have led to potentially exculpatory material is raised for the first time on appeal and, therefore, is not preserved for our review (see People v Martinez, 298 AD2d 897, 898 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 769 [2002], cert denied — US —, 123 S Ct 1752, [2003] reh denied — US —, 123 S Ct 2266 [2003]; People v Anderson, 274 AD2d 974 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 863 [2000]). In any event, that contention is “entirely speculative and, therefore, is not a basis for reversal” (People v Thornton, 130 AD2d 78, 82 [1987], lv denied 70 NY2d 755 [1987]). Finally, we reject the further contention of defendant that he was denied a fair trial based on the refusal of a potential prosecution witness to talk to defendant’s attorney, allegedly because the prosecutor had told the witness not to discuss the case with anyone. Defendant’s attorney sought a letter from the prosecutor excepting defense counsel from that alleged prohibition. The prosecutor denied giving such an instruction and refused counsel’s request. Because witnesses have a constitutional right to refuse to talk to defense counsel (see People v Marino, 87 Misc 2d 542, 543 [1976]), and because there is no evidence that the prosecutor gave such an instruction, we conclude that there is no merit to defendant’s contention. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Chautauqua County Court (Ward, J.), entered December 20, 1999, convicting defendant upon a jury verdict of, inter alia, sodomy in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon a jury verdict of sodomy in the first degree (Penal Law § 130.50 [3]), course of sexual conduct against a child in the first degree (§ 130.75 [1] [a]), and use of a child in a sexual performance (§ 263.05). Contrary to the contention of defendant, County Court did not err in refusing to allow him to present the testimony of certain witnesses in order to impeach the credibility of the victims or to recall the victims to testify in order to impeach their credibility. It is well settled that “a party may not introduce extrinsic evidence on a collateral matter solely to impeach credibility” (People v Alvino, 71 NY2d 233, 247 [1987]; see People v Ferere, 294 AD2d 596 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 696 [2002]; People v Blanchard, 279 AD2d 808, 811 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 826 [2001]). Contrary to the further contention of defendant, the court did not abuse its discretion in denying his request for an adjournment of sentencing on the ground that defense counsel was experiencing personal problems (see generally People v Singleton, 41 NY2d 402, 405 [1977]; People v Williams, 302 AD2d 903 [2003]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County (Buscaglia, J.), entered April 4, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree (two counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon a jury verdict of two counts of criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree (Penal Law § 265.02 [1], [4]) and one count of criminal possession of stolen property in the fourth degree (§ 165.45 [4]). All three counts arose out of the seizure by police of a handgun from the floor of a vehicle in which defendant was a passenger. The handgun had been stolén during an armed robbery four days earlier. Contrary to the contention of defendant, there was no violation of his right to be free from unreasonable search.and seizure. The vehicle stop was justified by the traffic violations observed by the officers (see People v Sobotker, 43 NY2d 559, 563-564 [1978]; People v Ingle, 36 NY2d 413, 414-415 [1975]; cf. People v Washburn, 309 AD2d 1270 [2003]). Additionally, upon lawfully stopping the vehicle, the officers were entitled, without more incriminating information, to order the driver and defendant out of the vehicle (see People v Mundo, 99 NY2d 55, 58 [2002]; People v Carvey, 89 NY2d 707, 710 [1997]), The officers then lawfully observed the gun in plain view on the floor of the vehicle and lawfully seized it from that location (see People v Robinson, 74 NY2d 773, 775 [1989], cert denied 493 US 966 [1989]). In any event, the officers had additional knowledge of incriminating circumstances justifying their conduct in ordering the suspects out of the vehicle at gunpoint, frisking them, and briefly detaining them. The vehicle in which the suspects were traveling generally matched that described in a “pickup-order” issued several days earlier, i.e., for a four-door Cadillac with tinted windows, which might contain a weapon. Further, when the officers sought to pull over the vehicle, the driver did not stop but instead drove on for several blocks, committing another traffic violation in the process and finally coming to a stop at a dead-end street. The officers at that point had a reasonable suspicion that criminal activity was afoot and a basis to fear for their own safety, thus supporting the reasonableness of the forcible stop, frisk, and temporary detention of the suspects (see People v Torres, 74 NY2d 224, 226-227 [1989]; People v Chestnut, 51 NY2d 14, 21-22 [1980], cert denied 449 US 1018 [1980]; People v Brown, 190 AD2d 1003, 1004 [1993], lv denied 81 NY2d 968 [1993]; see also People v Martinez, 289 AD2d 94 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 757 [2002]; People v Thomas, 275 AD2d 276, 278-279 [2000], Iv denied 95 NY2d 939 [2000]). The evidence is legally sufficient to support the conviction and the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Supreme Court did not err in denying defendant’s untimely request for a missing witness instruction (see People v Gonzalez, 68 NY2d 424, 427-428 [1986]; People v Coleman, 306 AD2d 941, 942 [2003]; People v McKinney, 302 AD2d 993, 995 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 584 [2003]). Defendant was not deprived of a fair trial by prosecutorial misconduct on summation (see generally People v Galloway, 54 NY2d 396, 401 [1981]). Nor was defendant deprived of effective assistance of counsel (see generally People v Henry, 95 NY2d 563, 565 [2000]; People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 147 [1981]). Among other things, trial counsel succeeded in obtaining defendant’s acquittal on the most serious charges. Finally, the sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ, Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Erie County Court (DiTullio, J.), entered April 18, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, burglary in the first degree (two counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of attempted assault in the first degree (Penal Law §§ 110.00, 120.10 [1]), two counts of burglary in the first degree (§ 140.30 [2], [3]), and other offenses. The contention of defendant that he was denied the right to be present at all material stages of trial is not reviewable because he failed to provide “an adequate record for appellate review” (People v Velasquez, 1 NY3d 44, 48 [2003]; see People v Maher, 89 NY2d 318, 325 [1996]; People v Jones, 289 AD2d 962, 963 [2001], lv denied 98 NY2d 652 [2002]; People v Mauleon, 266 AD2d 66, 67 [1999], lv denied 94 NY2d 922 [2000]; People v Redding, 262 AD2d 663, 664 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 1045 [1999]). By presenting evidence after County Court denied his motion to dismiss the second, third, and fourth counts of the indictment at the close of the People’s proof, defendant waived review of that determination, and he failed to renew the motion at the close of all the proof (see People v Hines, 97 NY2d 56, 61 [2001], rearg denied 97 NY2d 678 [2001]; People v Zeigler, 305 AD2d 1100, 1101 [2003]). The verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). The court properly denied defendant’s requests to charge criminal trespass in the second degree as a lesser included offense of burglary in the first degree under the third count of the indictment, and burglary in the second degree as a lesser included offense of burglary in the first degree under the fourth count of the indictment. No reasonable view of the evidence supports a finding that defendant committed the lesser offenses but not the greater (see generally People v Glover; 57 NY2d 61, 63 [1982]). Defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that the prosecutor improperly cross-examined him regarding uncharged crimes or bad acts (see CPL 470.05 [2]). In any event, that contention is without merit. The court did not abuse its discretion in declining to consider defendant’s pro se motion to set aside the verdict pursuant to CPL 330.30. A defendant who is represented by counsel “cannot, as of right, make motions,” and the decision whether to consider a pro se motion when the defendant is represented by counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court (People v Rodriguez, 95 NY2d 497, 501 [2000]). The sentence is neither unduly harsh nor severe. We have considered defendant’s remaining contentions and conclude that they are without merit. Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Pine, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
CPLR article 78 proceeding transferred to this Court by an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Fahey, J.), entered May 13, 2003 seeking to vacate a determination disqualifying petitioner from receiving food stamps benefits. It is hereby ordered that the determination be and the same hereby is unanimously confirmed without costs and the petition is dismissed. Memorandum: Petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding seeking to vacate the determination disqualifying her from receiving food stamp benefits for a period of one year on the ground that, when she applied for recertification, she failed to disclose a mutual fund account opened in the name of her five-year-old daughter under the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (EPTL 7-6.1 et seq.). Had the account been disclosed, petitioner would have been ineligible to receive food stamp benefits during the period from June 1999 through October 1999 because the financial resources available to her during that period exceeded $2,000. We conclude that the determination that petitioner intentionally failed to disclose the account is supported by substantial evidence (see Matter of Williams v Perales, 156 AD2d 697 [1989]; Matter of Velasquez v Perales, 151 AD2d 766, 767 [1989]). It was established at the administrative hearing underlying the determination that petitioner, knowing she was required to disclose the financial resources of everyone living with her, disclosed her own financial resources but not those of her daughter. Contrary to the contention of petitioner, it is readily inferable therefrom that she acted intentionally (see People v Stumbrice, 194 AD2d 931, 934, lv denied 82 NY2d 727 [1993]; see also People v Smith, 300 AD2d 1145 [2002]). The testimony of petitioner that she did not intentionally conceal the account presented a credibility issue for respondent Commissioner of the New York State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance (State Commissioner) to resolve (see Matter of Czerwiak v Wing, 245 AD2d 1098 [1997]). The State Commissioner’s “decision not to credit her self-serving [testimony] was rational and therefore not arbitrary or capricious” (Velasquez, 151 AD2d at 767). We reject petitioner’s further contention that the State Commissioner applied the wrong standard of proof (see 18 NYCRR 359.7 [fj [1]). Present— Green, J.P, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County (Sconiers, J.), entered July 23, 2001, convicting defendant upon her plea of guilty of driving while intoxicated as a felony. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733, 737 [1998]). Present — Green, J.P, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Ontario County Court (Doran, J), entered November 30, 2001, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of, inter alia, criminal possession of stolen property in the fourth degree (seven counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him, upon his plea of guilty, of seven counts of criminal possession of stolen property in the fourth degree (Penal Law § 165.45 [2]) and one count of criminal possession of stolen property in the fifth degree (§ 165.40) in satisfaction of a 39-count indictment. By failing to move to withdraw his plea or to vacate the judgment of conviction, defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that the plea allocution is factually insufficient (see People v Lopez, 71 NY2d 662, 665 [1988]; People v Tapscott, 302 AD2d 918, 919 [2003]). The rare case exception to the preservation requirement does not apply where, as here, nothing in “defendant’s recitation of the facts underlying the crime pleaded to clearly casts significant doubt upon the defendant’s guilt or otherwise calls into question the voluntariness of the plea” (Lopez, 71 NY2d at 666; see Tapscott, 302 AD2d at 919). Present — Green, J.R, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Genesee County Court (Noonan, J), entered January 22, 2001, upon a jury verdict convicting defendant of murder in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: The evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the People (see People v Contes, 60 NY2d 620, 621 [1983]), is legally sufficient to support defendant’s conviction of murder in the second degree (Penal Law § 125.25 [1]). The verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]), nor is the sentence unduly harsh or severe. Present — Green, J.P, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Affront!, J.), entered April 30, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of aggravated criminal contempt and assault in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law and as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice by reversing that part convicting defendant of assault in the second degree, vacating the sentence imposed thereon and dismissing count three of the indictment and as modified the judgment is affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of aggravated criminal contempt (Penal Law § 215.52) and assault in the second degree (§ 120.05 [6]), arising from an incident in the complainant’s home. Defendant is the complainant’s former boyfriend, and his presence in the complainant’s home was in violation of an order of protection. He was sentenced as a persistent violent felony offender (see § 70.08) to a term of incarceration of 14 years to life on the assault in the second degree count (see § 70.02 [1] [c]). In addition, he was sentenced as a second felony offender to a term of incarceration of 31h to 7 years on the aggravated criminal contempt count, to run concurrently with the assault count. We reject the contention of defendant that Supreme Court erred in permitting the prosecution to present evidence that he assaulted the complainant on three prior occasions. “The evidence was properly admitted ... as evidence of the defendant’s motive and intent in the commission of the charged crimes” (People v Lawrence, 297 AD2d 290, 291 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 769 [2002]). The further contention of defendant that the court’s limiting instruction was inadequate is not preserved for our review (see People v Williams, 50 NY2d 996 [1980]; People v Williams, 231 AD2d 868 [1996], lv denied 89 NY2d 868 [1996]), nor are his additional contentions regarding the dismissal of a sworn juror prior to deliberations (see People v Hopkins, 76 NY2d 872, 873 [1990]; People v Alexander, 282 AD2d 468, 469 [2001]). We decline to exercise our power to review those contentions as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see CPL 470.15 [6] [a]). In a pro se supplemental brief, defendant contends that aggravated criminal contempt may not serve as the predicate for his conviction of assault in the second degree under Penal Law § 120.05 (6). We agree. Although defendant’s contention is not preserved for our review (see CPL 470.05 [2]), we nevertheless exercise our discretion to review it as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). Penal Law § 215.52 provides in relevant part that “[a] person is guilty of aggravated criminal contempt when in violation of a duly served order of protection ... he or she intentionally or recklessly causes physical injury ... to a person for whose protection such order was issued.” A person is guilty of assault in the second degree under Penal Law § 120.05 (6) when “[i]n the course of and in furtherance of the commission or attempted commission of a felony . . . he . . . causes physical injury to a person other than one of the participants.” We conclude that aggravated criminal contempt may not serve as the predicate for a conviction of assault in the second degree under Penal Law § 120.05 (6) because otherwise every aggravated criminal contempt would also constitute assault in the second degree under section 120.05 (6) (see People v Donahue, 130 Misc 2d 1080 [1986]; see also People v Miller, 32 NY2d 157, 159-160 [1973]; People v La Marca, 3 NY2d 452, 465-466 [1957], mot to amend remittitur granted 3 NY2d 933 [1957], rearg denied 3 NY2d 942 [1957], cert denied 355 US 920 [1958], rearg denied 4 NY2d 960 [1958]; People v Moran, 246 NY 100, 102-103 [1927]; People v Wagner, 245 NY 143, 148-149 [1927]). The purpose of the Legislature in enacting the crime of aggravated criminal contempt was “to elevate an intentional or reckless assault in the third degree . . . from a class A misdemeanor to a [class D] felony when it is committed in violation of an order of protection against a person for whose protection the order was issued” (Donnino, Practice Commentary, McKinney’s Cons Laws of NY, Book 39, Penal Law § 215.52, at 456; see Governor’s Mem approving L 1996, ch 353, 1996 McKinney’s Session Laws of NY, at 1891; Mem of NY Senate in Support, 1996 McKinney’s Session Laws of NY, at 2309-2310); the Legislature did not thereby intend to elevate such criminal conduct to a class D violent felony, as assault in the second degree is classified (see § 70.02 [1] [c]). We therefore modify the judgment by reversing that part convicting defendant of assault in the second degree, vacating the sentence imposed thereon and dismissing count three of the indictment. The remaining contention of defendant in his pro se supplemental brief is not preserved for our review (see CPL 470.05 [2]), and we decline to exercise our power to review that contention as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). Present—Green, J.P, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Ontario County Court (Harvey, J.), entered December 21, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, driving while intoxicated as a felony. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of common-law driving while intoxicated (Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1192 [3]), criminal trespass in the second degree (Penal Law § 140.15) and criminal mischief in the fourth degree (§ 145.00 [1]). In response to defendant’s pretrial discovery demands, the People inadvertently disclosed the calibration log for a breathalyzer instrument that was not used in connection with defendant’s arrest. At trial, however, the People introduced the calibration log for the correct breathalyzer instrument. Defendant does not contend that anything contained in that log warrants preclusion of the breathalyzer test results, but nevertheless contends that County Court erred in denying his motion to preclude based on the late disclosure of the proper calibration log. We reject defendant’s contention. Before the results of a breath test may be admitted in evidence, the People are required to lay a proper foundation under CPLR 4518 (a) “to establish that the particular instrument used to test a defendant’s [blood alcohol content] . . . had been tested within a reasonable period in relation to defendant’s test and found to be properly calibrated and in working order” (People v Mertz, 68 NY2d 136, 148 [1986]). Moreover, CPL 240.20 (1) (k) provides that “[t]he prosecutor shall disclose to the defendant. . . any written report or document. . . [reflecting the] calibration or repair of machines or instruments utilized to perform such [breath] tests . . . which the people intend to introduce at trial.” While the People concededly delayed in disclosing the certificates of calibration for the correct breathalyzer instrument, that delay did not deny defendant the ability to prepare an adequate defense (see People v Heidelmark, 214 AD2d 767, 769 [1995], lv denied 85 NY2d 973 [1995]), and nothing contained in the log would have “proved useful to the defense” or might have resulted in a different verdict (People v Corley, 124 AD2d 390, 391 [1986]). Thus, reversal is not required, inasmuch as the delay in disclosing the proper records did not “deprive defendant of his legitimate challenge to the reliability of the breathalyzer” instrument (People v English, 103 AD2d 979, 980 [1984]). We further conclude that the sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. Present — Green, J.P., Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Genesee County Court (Noonan, J.), entered October 17, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, felony driving while intoxicated. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of felony driving while intoxicated (Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1192 [3]; § 1193 [1] [c] [i]) and aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle in the first degree (§511 [3] [a]). Contrary to defendant’s contentions, the conviction is supported by legally sufficient evidence (see People v Dugan, 188 AD2d 927, 928 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 839 [1993]), and the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Present — Green, J.P, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order of Family Court, Oneida County (Flemma, J.H.O.), entered August 4, 2000, finding that Stephanie K. was neglected by respondent Rose K. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs (see Matter of Lisa E. [appeal No. 1], 207 AD2d 983 [1994]). Present — Green, J.P., Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from those parts of an order of Family Court, Oneida County (Flemma, J.H.O.), entered November 16, 2000, that, inter alia, placed respondent Rose K. under the supervision of petitioner for a period of eight months. It is hereby ordered that the order insofar as appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs and the petition against respondent Rose K. is dismissed. Memorandum: Petitioner failed to meet its burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that Rose K. (respondent) neglected her stepdaughter (see Family Ct Act § 1046 [b] [i]). The evidence at the fact-finding hearing establishes that the stepdaughter sustained an injury to her wrist as the result of a physical altercation with her father over a sexually explicit photograph and that respondent merely attempted to retrieve a second photograph from the stepdaughter’s pocket during the altercation. It is undisputed that respondent’s conduct did not cause the injury. The evidence also fails to establish that respondent “ ‘knew or should reasonably have known’ that the child was in danger” from her father’s conduct (Matter of Robert YY., 199 AD2d 690, 692 [1993], quoting Matter of Sara X., 122 AD2d 795, 796 [1986], appeal dismissed 69 NY2d 707 [1986]). Petitioner presented no proof of a pattern of excessive force by the father; indeed, the proof establishes that this was a single, isolated incident (see Matter of Anthony PP., 291 AD2d 687, 688 [2002]; Matter of Amanda E., 279 AD2d 917, 918 [2001]; Matter of Luke M., 193 AD2d 446, 447 [1993]). Finally, the evidence fails to establish that, during the altercation, respondent was aware that the stepdaughter was injured or “that a reasonably prudent parent would have acted differently and, in so doing, prevented the injury” (Robert YY., 199 AD2d at 692). We therefore reverse the order insofar as appealed from and dismiss the petition against respondent. Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Jefferson County (Hunt, J.), entered August 9, 2002, which, inter alia, granted the cross petition of petitioner and awarded her sole custody of the parties’ children. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, and the matter is remitted to Family Court, Jefferson County, for further proceedings on the petition and cross petition in accordance with the following memorandum: Respondent father appeals from an order granting petitioner mother’s cross petition seeking modification of the existing custody order. Family Court awarded petitioner sole custody of the parties’ three children and denied respondent any visitation “until further order of [the] court.” We agree with respondent that the court erred in dismissing his petition seeking sole custody of the children and granting the cross petition without conducting an evidentiary hearing. Contrary to the court’s determination, respondent did not default by failing to appear on the scheduled date of the custody hearing. His attorney was present and appeared on his behalf (see Matter of Sales v Gisendaner, 272 AD2d 997 [2000]; Matter of D’Entremont v D’Entremont, 254 AD2d 576 [1998]). In any event, even assuming, arguendo, that respondent had defaulted, we nevertheless would conclude that the court erred in failing to conduct an evidentiary hearing inasmuch as the record establishes that the court did not possess “sufficient information to render an informed determination that was consistent with the child[ren’s] best interests” (Matter of Vangas v Ladas, 259 AD2d 755, 755 [1999]). Although the investigative report prepared by the Jefferson County Department of Social Services (DSS) pursuant to Family Ct Act § 1034 substantiated petitioner’s allegation that respondent previously had been homeless, it did not address the fact that respondent was residing in a five-bedroom house in Watertown. Nor did DSS investigate the living conditions in petitioner’s household. We therefore reverse the order, and we remit the matter to Family Court, Jefferson County, for further proceedings on the petition and cross petition before a different judge (see Sales, 272 AD2d at 998; D’Entremont, 254 AD2d at 576-577; Matter of Davies v Davies, 223 AD2d 884, 886-887 [1996]). In view of our determination, we do not address respondent’s further contentions. Present — Green, J.E, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Jefferson County (Hunt, J.), entered July 16, 2002, which granted an ordér of protection against respondent. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs as moot (see Matter of Hanehan v Hanehan, 260 AD2d 685, 686 [1999]; Matter of Muldrew v Mixon, 237 AD2d 942 [1997]). Present—Green, J.P, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Oneida County (Ringrose, J.), entered June 3, 2002, which dismissed the counterclaim. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, the counterclaim is reinstated and the matter is remitted to Supreme Court, Oneida County, for further proceedings on the counterclaim. Memorandum: Petitioner, a disabled firefighter receiving disability retirement benefits pursuant to General Municipal Law § 207-a (2), commenced this proceeding seeking in effect to prevent respondents, the City of Utica and its Employee Benefits Coordinator (collectively, City), from reducing those benefits by the amount of supplemental retirement benefits petitioner received pursuant to Retirement and Social Security Law § 378. The City asserted a counterclaim for recoupment of alleged overpayments to petitioner. Supreme Court granted the petition and dismissed the counterclaim, and on a prior appeal this Court affirmed the judgment (Matter of Farber v City of Utica, 282 AD2d 39 [2001]). The Court of Appeals thereafter reversed our order, dismissing the petition and reinstating the counterclaim, and the Court remitted the matter to Supreme Court for further proceedings on the counterclaim (Matter of Farber v City of Utica, 97 NY2d 476, 480-481 [2002]). On remittal, Supreme Court dismissed the counterclaim, and this appeal ensued. We reverse. Although we reject the City’s contention that it would be “against equity and good conscience to permit the [petitioner] to retain what is sought to be recovered” (Para mount Film Distrib. Corp. v State of New York, 30 NY2d 415, 421 [1972], mot to amend remittitur granted 31 NY2d 678 [1972], rearg denied 31 NY2d 709 [1972], cert denied 414 US 829 [1973]), we nevertheless conclude that the City is entitled to recoup those funds. The City has a “common-law right of action ... to recover an overpayment of governmental moneys” (Matter of Daleview Nursing Home v Axelrod, 62 NY2d 30, 33 [1984]), and we therefore reject petitioner’s contention that the City should be estopped from recovering such funds herein. “[T]he severely limited recognition of estoppel as a defense to an action for recoupment stems not from the thought that the recipient of an overpayment may not have equities in his . . . favor, but from considerations of sovereign immunity, protection of the public fisc, and separation of powers . . ., leading to the conclusion that it is better that the recipient ‘should now and then suffer by such mistakes, than to introduce a rule against the abuse of which ... it would be very difficult for the public to protect itself ” (id. at 34; see generally Matter of Schwartfigure v Hartnett, 83 NY2d 296, 300-301 [1994]; Matter of Couch v Perales, 78 NY2d 595, 601-602 [1991]). We therefore reverse the order, reinstate the counterclaim and remit the matter to Supreme Court, Oneida County, for further proceedings on the counterclaim. Present — Green, J.E, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment (denominated order) of Supreme Court, Erie County (O’Donnell, J.), entered April 29, 2002, which dismissed the petition in this CPLR article 78 proceeding. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs. Memorandum: Petitioner appeals from a judgment dismissing his petition challenging the determination of the Parole Board that denied his request for parole release. This appeal must be dismissed as moot because the determination expired during the pendency of this appeal, and the Parole Board denied petitioner’s subsequent request for parole release (see Matter of Phillips v Travis, 289 AD2d 1035 [2001]; Matter of Alicea v New York State Div. of Parole, 265 AD2d 769 [1999]). Present— Green, J.P., Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Makowski, J.), entered February 3, 2003, which denied plaintiffs motion seeking leave to renew and reargue. It is hereby ordered that said appeal from the order insofar as it denied leave to reargue be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed (see Empire Ins. Co. v Food City, 167 AD2d 983, 984 [1990]) and the order is affirmed without costs. Present—Green, J.P, Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal and cross appeal from an order and judgment (one document) of Supreme Court, Erie County (Makowski, J.), entered December 13, 2001, which, inter alia, granted that part of the motion of defendant for partial summary judgment on liability on its counterclaim. It is hereby ordered that the order and judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff, Town of West Seneca (Town), and defendant entered into a contract pursuant to which defendant agreed to accept the Town’s solid waste in return for a monthly fee. In July 1998, the Town ceased paying defendant’s invoices and subsequently commenced an action alleging that the environmental cost, a component of the monthly fee, was excessive and contrary to the provisions of the contract. The Town nevertheless continued to send its solid waste to defendant for a period of 18 months, however, at which time defendant refused to accept any further waste. Defendant commenced a separate action against the Town to recover those unpaid disposal fees, and the two actions were thereafter consolidated. Supreme Court properly granted that part of the motion of defendant for partial summary judgment on liability on its counterclaim for unpaid disposal fees. Defendant met its initial burden by establishing that the Town continued to send its solid waste to defendant’s facility for 18 months without paying any of defendant’s invoices (see Convenient Med. Care v Medical Bus. Assoc., 291 AD2d 617, 618 [2002]). In opposition, the Town did not assert that the contract was invalid but, rather, asserted defendant’s alleged breach of the contract as a defense to the Town’s nonperformance. Because defendant established the existence of a valid contract and the Town’s breach thereof, the court properly determined that defendant is entitled to partial summary judgment on liability (see id.). We further conclude, however, that the court properly denied that part of defendant’s motion with respect to damages. The environmental cost component disputed by the Town cannot be separated from the other components of the monthly fee, and thus the relief sought by defendant on the counterclaim is “inseparable from or inextricably intertwined” with the relief sought by the Town (Yoi-Lee Realty Corp. v 177th St. Realty Assoc., 208 AD2d 185, 189 [1995]; see Alsheimer v Evarts, 289 AD2d 1004 [2001]). Present — Green, J.P., Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Lunn, J.), entered August 19, 2002, which denied the motion of third-party defendant Ruffin’s A-l Contracting, Inc. seeking leave to renew. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed with costs. Memorandum: Supreme Court properly denied the motion of third-party defendant Ruffin’s A-l Contracting, Inc. (Ruffin’s) seeking leave to renew with respect to plaintiff’s motion for partial summary judgment on liability under Labor Law § 240 (1). We reject the contention of Ruffin’s that “there has been a change in the law that would change the prior determination” granting plaintiffs motion (CPLR 2221 [e] [2]; see Thompson v St. Charles Condominiums, 303 AD2d 152, 154 [2003], lv dismissed 100 NY2d 556 [2003]; Outar v City of New York, 286 AD2d 671, 672-673 [2001]). Present — Green, J.P., Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Roy, J.), entered February 18, 2003, that vacated portions of an arbitration award. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by granting that part of the cross application seeking to confirm that portion of the arbitration award directing petitioner to compensate second grade teachers who had attended workshops outside of their normal working hours at their effective hourly rate of pay and confirming that portion of the arbitration award and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Respondent appeals from an order of Supreme Court insofar as it vacates portions of an arbitration award dated August 5, 2002. After an arbitrator determined on a previous occasion that, under the parties’ collective bargaining agreement, petitioner cannot mandate that first grade teachers attend certain workshops outside of their normal working hours (see Matter of West Genesee Cent. School Dist. v West Genesee Teachers Assn., 307 AD2d 718 [2003]), petitioner mandated that second grade teachers attend similar workshops outside of their normal working hours. In response to that new mandate, respondent again filed a demand for arbitration and again an arbitrator determined that petitioner’s mandate violates the collective bargaining agreement. We agree with respondent that the arbitrator did not exceed his authority under the collective bargaining agreement by directing petitioner to compensate teachers who had attended the workshops at their effective hourly rate of pay rather than at the rate of $20 per hour under article V (F) (2) of the agreement. The arbitrator’s apparent conclusion that article V (F) (2) applies only to voluntary workshops and not to those mandated by petitioner “constitute^] an interpretation of the agreement which was within his authority” (Matter of New York State Governor’s Off. of Empl. Relations [New York State Law Enforcement Officers Union, Dist. Council 82, AFSCME, AFL-CIO], 242 AD2d 756, 757 [1997]; see generally Matter of Silverman [Benmor Coats], 61 NY2d 299, 308 [1984]; Azrielant v Azrielant, 301 AD2d 269, 275 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 509 [2003]). Neither article V (F) (2) nor any other provision of the agreement expressly restricts the range of authorized remedies under the circumstances here. Contrary to respondent’s contention, however, the arbitrator exceeded his authority under the collective bargaining agreement by directing petitioner to pay the arbitrator’s fees and expenses and to reimburse respondent for the administrative fees that it paid. Article II (C) (4) (c) of the agreement provides that “fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally” and, under article II (C) (4) (d), the arbitrator has “no power to add to, subtract from, or change any of the provisions of [the agreement].” We therefore modify the order by granting that part of the cross application seeking to confirm that portion of the award directing petitioner to compensate teachers who had attended the workshops at their effective hourly rate of pay and confirming that portion of the award. Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Wyoming County (Dadd, J.), entered September 23, 2002, which dismissed the petition in this CPLR article 78 proceeding. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs as moot (see Matter of Phillips v Travis, 289 AD2d 1035 [2001]). Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Monroe County Court (Geraci, Jr., J.), entered October 6, 2000, and this Court on December 30, 2002, having entered an order holding the case, reserving decision and remitting the matter to Monroe County Court for further proceedings in accordance with the memorandum (300 AD2d 1098 [2002]) and said proceedings have been had and terminated. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: We held this case, reserved decision and remitted this matter to County Court for a reconstruction hearing on the issue whether defendant was absent from sidebar conferences with prospective jurors (People v Allen, 300 AD2d 1098 [2002]). Contrary to the contention of defendant, he “failed to meet his burden of coming forward with substantial evidence establishing his absence” from the sidebar conferences (People v Foster, 1 NY3d 44,48 [2003]; see People v Jackson, 296 AD2d 658, 659 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 768 [2002]; People v Mack, 293 AD2d 762 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 699 [2002]; People v Bennett, 252 AD2d 369 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 980 [1998]). The testimony of the prosecutor and stenographer supports the court’s finding that defendant was present during all sidebar conferences. By presenting evidence after the court denied his motion to dismiss at the close of the People’s case, defendant waived subsequent review of that determination, and defendant failed to renew the motion at the close of all the proof (see People v Hines, 97 NY2d 56, 61 [2001], rearg denied 97 NY2d 678 [2001]; People v Zeigler, 305 AD2d 1100 [2003]; People v Montana, 298 AD2d 934, 935 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 561 [2002]). In any event, the evidence is legally sufficient to support the conviction (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Contrary to the further contention of defendant, the court properly denied his request for a moral certainty charge (see generally People v Daddona, 81 NY2d 990, 992 [1993]). There was direct evidence of defendant’s receipt of the prerecorded buy money for the drug sale (see People v Florez, 265 AD2d 491 [1999], lv denied 94 NY2d 880 [2000]), and a moral certainty charge is not required merely because the proof with respect to a particular element, such as intent, is wholly circumstantial (see People v Reynolds, 269 AD2d 735, 737 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 838 [2000], cert denied 531 US 945 [2000]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
CPLR article 78 proceeding transferred to this Court by an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Michalek, J.), entered April 11, 2003, seeking to annul respondents’ determination. It is hereby ordered that the determination be and the same hereby is unanimously confirmed without costs and the petition is dismissed. Memorandum: Petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding seeking to annul respondents’ determination finding that petitioner violated respondents’ overtime pay policy and imposing a disciplinary penalty of censure, five days’ suspension and a return to six months’ probationary status based on petitioner’s misconduct in attempting to obtain overtime pay under false pretenses. Petitioner was a state trooper for 19 years prior to the misconduct at issue. He contends that the determination is arbitrary and capricious and not supported by substantial evidence, and that the penalty imposed is an abuse of discretion and is excessive. Petitioner further contends that Supreme Court erred in determining that the record is insufficient to permit review of petitioner’s challenge to respondents’ policy of intercepting and withholding court orders issued to troopers. We conclude that respondents’ determination that petitioner violated respondents’ overtime pay policy is not arbitrary and capricious and is supported by substantial evidence (see 300 Gramatan Ave. Assoc. v State Div. of Human Rights, 45 NY2d 176, 179-180 [1978]). Petitioner testified that he was aware of his employer’s policy to cut down bn overtime by not having troopers appear in court unless a case was scheduled for trial and the trooper’s testimony was needed. Nonetheless, petitioner testified that one supervisor approved his request for overtime for two Vehicle and Traffic cases despite the fact that he never told the sergeant he was needed for trial. Petitioner’s supervisor testified not only that petitioner told him that the cases were scheduled for trial, but also discussed whether he should return to the station to change clothes or retrieve his case notes. Moreover, the supervisor documented petitioner’s statement that the cases were scheduled for trial in the police blotter immediately after his phone conversation with petitioner. Further, another supervising officer testified that, because of the policy to cut down on overtime, petitioner’s immediate supervisor would never have authorized petitioner’s overtime request had petitioner “not said trial.” He further testified that, in his view, petitioner’s immediate supervisor discussed petitioner’s request with petitioner in detail in order to be certain that his cases were ready for trial, in light of the new overtime pay policy. Based on the foregoing, the determination that petitioner violated respondents’ overtime pay policy by falsely stating that he was needed for trial in order to receive overtime is not arbitrary and capricious and is supported by substantial evidence. We further reject petitioner’s contention that the penalty of censure, five days’ suspension and a return to six months’ probationary status is an abuse of discretion and is excessive (see Matter of Hricik v McMahon, 247 AD2d 935, 936 [1998], citing Matter of Santos v Chesworth, 133 AD2d 1001, 1003 [1987]; see also Matter of Fortune v State of New York, Div. of State Police, 293 AD2d 154, 157 [2002]). The penalty imposed in this case cannot be said to be “shocking to one’s sense of fairness” (Matter of Pell v Board of Educ. of Union Free School Dist. No. 1 of Towns of Scarsdale & Mamaroneck, 34 NY2d 222, 234 [1974]). Finally, because petitioner was never charged with violating respondents’ policy regarding trooper court time, but was only charged with misconduct for lying to a superior, we do not review petitioner’s challenge to the propriety of a policy that was only tangentially related to the disciplinary penalty. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ, Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Cosgrove, J), entered August 19, 2002, which denied plaintiffs motion for summary judgment, granted summary judgment to defendant and dismissed the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff appeals from an order that denied her motion for summary judgment, granted summary judgment to defendant and dismissed the complaint. Plaintiff owns a one-half interest in property located at 16-18 Eaton Street in the City of Lackawanna. She commenced this action alleging that defendant unlawfully demolished a building on the premises. By a prior action, plaintiff had sought to enjoin defendant from demolishing the building. That action was resolved by stipulation of the parties, pursuant to which plaintiff agreed to clean up the premises within 90 days from entry and service of the order entered upon the stipulation, and defendant was temporarily restrained from taking any further steps toward the demolition of the property during that period. By order entered January 23, 1997, Supreme Court determined that 90 days had elapsed since the entry and service of its previous order and further determined that plaintiff had failed to clean up the premises within the time ordered. That order also granted defendant permission to immediately demolish the building and to assess the cost of demolition on the tax bill for the property. We dismissed plaintiff’s appeal from that order (Jopek v City of Lackawanna, 244 AD2d 973 [1997]). The primary contention of plaintiff on this appeal is that defendant failed to notify her of the time and date of the demolition. Contrary to plaintiff’s contention, however, defendant substantially complied with the notice requirements of the Lackawanna Municipal Code, and plaintiff was given ample notice and an opportunity to be heard prior to the demolition (see Home Doc Corp. v City of New York, 297 AD2d 277 [2002]; see also Lackawanna Municipal Code § 33.10). Because the court’s order entered January 23, 1997 allowed defendant to demolish the building “immediately,” the court properly granted summary judgment in defendant’s favor (see CPLR 3212 [b]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal and cross appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County (NeMoyer, J.), entered November 19, 2002, which awarded money damages to plaintiff upon a jury verdict. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: This is the third action commenced by plaintiff to recover on a labor and material payment bond (bond) issued by Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland (defendant) after defendants Shared Management Group, Ltd., doing business as Division Four Masonry, also known as Division 4 Masonry and Division 4 Masonry, Inc., defaulted on the payment of rent for materials furnished by plaintiff on a public improvement project. We previously affirmed the order dismissing plaintiffs first action, seeking the same relief, without prejudice, because plaintiff, a foreign corporation, had failed to comply with Business Corporation Law § 1312 (a) (Scaffold-Russ Dilworth v Shared Mgt. Group, 256 AD2d 1087 [1998]). While that appeal was pending, plaintiff commenced a second action seeking the same relief, but that action was also dismissed based on plaintiffs continued failure to comply with section 1312 (a). Plaintiff then commenced this action within six months of our order affirming the order dismissing the first action. Defendant answered and asserted various affirmative defenses, including the statute of limitations and, once again, plaintiffs failure to comply with section 1312 (a). Plaintiff moved to dismiss the affirmative defenses and defendant cross-moved to dismiss the amended complaint alleging, inter alia, that plaintiff is not a proper claimant under the terms of the bond because its contract was not with a subcontractor covered by the bond. We affirmed Supreme Court’s order granting plaintiffs motion and denying defendant’s cross motion (Scaffold-Russ Dilworth v Shared Mgt. Group, 289 AD2d 932 [2001]). We previously determined that the instant action was timely commenced under the tolling provisions of CPLR 205 (a) and that plaintiff had fully complied with Business Corporation Law § 1312 (a) (Scaffold-Russ Dilworth, 289 AD2d at 933-934). Those determinations are the law of the case and cannot be disturbed on this appeal (see generally Martin v City of Cohoes, 37 NY2d 162, 165 [1975], rearg denied 37 NY2d 817 [1975]). With respect to whether plaintiff is a proper claimant, we determined that the court properly denied defendant’s cross motion to dismiss the amended complaint because plaintiff “undoubtedly furnished materials and labor to the subcontractor and thus is covered by the bond ‘by force of the statute’ ” (Scaffold-Russ Dilworth, 289 AD2d at 935). We further determined that, regardless whether “Shared Management Group, Ltd., d/b/a Division Four Masonry,” or “Division 4 Masonry, Inc.” subcontracted with the general contractor, plaintiff provided scaffolding to the entity that subcontracted for the masonry work on the public improvement project and therefore plaintiff was covered by the terms of the bond (id. at 934-935; see also State Finance Law § 137 [1]). That determination also constitutes the law of the case and thus, contrary to defendant’s contention, the court properly refused to submit the question of plaintiffs status as a proper claimant to the jury. In any event, we conclude that the proof at trial established as a matter of law that plaintiff is a proper claimant. Contrary to defendant’s further contention, the absence of a written agreement stating the price for renting the scaffolding does not preclude plaintiff from recovering under the bond. Plaintiff is entitled to recover under the bond for the rental value of materials (see Harsco Corp. v Gripon Constr. Corp., 301 AD2d 90, 93 [2002]), and it may recover in quantum meruit in the absence of a valid written agreement (see Foster Co. v Terry Contr., 34 AD2d 638, 638-639 [1970]). We further conclude that, contrary to plaintiffs contention, the court properly set June 1, 1999 as the date from which interest should be awarded. The Court of Appeals has held that a cause of action accrues on the earliest date that the injured plaintiff may “judicially assert the claim and sue for relief” (LaBello v Albany Med. Ctr. Hosp., 85 NY2d 701, 703 [1995]). “A cause of action is the right to prosecute an action with effect. . . . It is not possible for one at the same time to have a cause of action and not to have the right to sue” (id. at 705 [internal quotation marks omitted]; see Jacobus v Colgate, 217 NY 235, 241 [1916]). The Court has reasoned that “ ‘[a] cause of action inherently includes and comprehends, in the absence of restrictive language, the right to maintain an action upon the claim or matter which also is inherently included in it’ ” (Travelers’ Ins. Co. v Brass Goods Mfg. Co., 239 NY 273, 278 [1925], quoting Travelers’ Ins. Co. v Padula Co., 224 NY 397, 405 [1918], rearg denied 225 NY 638 [1918]). Because plaintiff did not have the right to maintain an action against defendant until June 1, 1999, that was “the earliest ascertainable date the cause of action existed” and constitutes the earliest date from which interest may be computed (CPLR 5001 [b]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Siwek, J.), entered April 30, 2002, which, inter alia, directed the appointment of a referee to oversee the election of officers of respondent Hamlin Park Community & Taxpayers’ Association, Inc. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs. Memorandum: Petitioner’s appeal from an order that, inter alia, directed the appointment of a referee, to oversee a disputed election of the officers of an organization organized pursuant to the Not-for-Profit Corporation Law must be dismissed inasmuch as petitioner is not aggrieved by the order (see generally Matter of Richmond County Socy. for Prevention of Cruelty to Children, 11 AD2d 236, 239-240, affd 9 NY2d 913 [1961], mots to amend remittitur granted 10 NY2d 746 [1961], cert denied sub nom. Staten Is. Mental Health Socy. v Richmond County Socy. for Prevention of Cruelty to Children, 368 US 290 [1961]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Sedita, Jr., J.), entered September 20, 2002, which granted the motion of defendant Vivacqua & Co., Inc. for summary judgment and dismissed the complaint against it. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs for the reasons stated in decision at Supreme Court, Erie County, Sedita, Jr., J. Present — Pigott, Jr., P.J., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Notaro, J.), entered January 23, 2003, which denied defendant’s motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Contrary to the contention of defendant, Supreme Court properly denied his motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint, which was based on the allegation that plaintiff did not sustain a serious injuiy within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Defendant submitted only uncertified and unsworn medical records and reports in support of his motion, and “uncertified, unsworn medical records [and reports] are not in admissible form” (Joseph E.G. v East Irondequoit Cent. School Dist., 273 AD2d 835, 836 [2000]; see Dumont v Peterson Trust, 307 AD2d 709 [2003]). There is no evidence that defendant obtained those documents directly from plaintiffs attorney and thus defendant is not entitled to rely upon them in support of his motion (see Dumont, 307 AD2d at 710; cf. Lowe v Bennett, 122 AD2d 728, 729 [1986], affd 69 NY2d 700 [1986]; Wiegand v Schunck, 294 AD2d 839 [2002]). In any event, even assuming, arguendo, that defendant met his initial burden, we conclude that plaintiff raised an issue of fact whether she met the serious injury threshold by submitting the affidavit of her treating physician (see generally Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Erie County (Rosa, J.), entered June 28, 2002, which dismissed the petition for custody. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs (see CPLR 5511; Matter of Michael Anthony F., 177 AD2d 1031 [1991]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Erie County (Rosa, J), entered June 28, 2002, which dismissed the petition for custody. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs (see CPLR 5511; Matter of Michael Anthony E, 177 AD2d 1031 [1991]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment (denominated order) of Supreme Court, Erie County (Doyle, J.), entered December 20, 2002, which, inter alia, granted the petition for a writ of habeas corpus. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs as moot (see People ex rel. Kendricks v Smith, 52 AD2d 1090 [1976]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Fisher, J.), entered May 7, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: On appeal from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree (Penal Law § 220.39 [1]), the sole contention of defendant is that the pretrial court erred in denying his motion seeking to dismiss the indictment based on the alleged denial of his statutory right to a speedy trial (see CPL 30.30 [1] [a]). We reject that contention. The criminal action commenced with the filing of the felony complaint on October 17, 2000, and thus the six-month period extended to April 18, 2001. The record establishes that the indictment was filed with the Clerk of the Supreme and County Courts on April 13, 2001, and a written notification of trial readiness was attached to the indictment. “[A] statement of readiness made contemporaneously with the filing of the indictment can be effective to stop the ‘speedy trial’ clock if the indictment is filed at least two days before the CPL 30.30 period ends” (People v Carter, 91 NY2d 795, 798 [1998]), and here the indictment was so filed. The People thereafter “promptly notif[ied]” defense counsel of the statement of readiness (People v Kendzia, 64 NY2d 331, 337 n [1985]). Present— Pigott, Jr., P.J., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Fisher, J.), entered January 24, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, criminal contempt in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by vacating the order of protection and as modified the judgment is affirmed, and the matter is remitted to Supreme Court, Monroe County, for further proceedings in accordance with the following memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him of one count of criminal contempt in the first degree (Penal Law § 215.51 [b] [iv]) and four counts of criminal contempt in the second degree (§ 215.50 [1], [3]). As the People correctly concede, the expiration date of the order of protection is erroneous because Supreme Court failed to take into account the jail time credit to which defendant is entitled (see People v Grice, 300 AD2d 1005, 1006 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 654 [2003]). We therefore modify the judgment by vacating the order of protection, and we remit the matter to Supreme Court, Monroe County, to determine the jail time credit to which defendant is entitled and to specify in the new order of protection a termination date that is three years from the date of expiration of the maximum term of the sentence, less that jail time credit. We decline, however, to exercise our power to modify the sentence as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice. Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Fisher, J.), entered March 7, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of, inter alia, robbery in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of robbery in the first degree (Penal Law § 160.15 [3]), assault in the second degree (§ 120.05 [6]) and grand larceny in the fourth degree (§ 155.30 [1]). Defendant waived his contention that Supreme Court abused its discretion in failing to grant him youthful offender status (see People v McGowen, 42 NY2d 905 [1977], rearg denied 42 NY2d 1015 [1977]). In any event, that contention lacks merit. Defendant received the bargained-for sentence, and thus we reject his further contention that the sentence is unduly harsh or severe (see People v Granton, 236 AD2d 624, 625 [1997], lv denied 89 NY2d 1012 [1997]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Cayuga County Court (Corning, J), entered June 13, 2002, convicting defendant upon her plea of guilty of burglary in the third degree and grand larceny in the fourth degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting her upon her plea of guilty of burglary in the third degree (Penal Law § 140.20) and grand larceny in the fourth degree (§ 155.30 [1]). She contends that County Court erred in sentencing her as a second felony offender based on her prior burglary conviction in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania because that conviction was not the equivalent of a felony in New York. Defendant failed to controvert the allegations in the predicate felony statement at the time of sentencing (see CPL 400.21 [3]), however, and thus has failed to preserve that contention for our review (see People v Smith, 73 NY2d 961 [1989]; People v Acoff, 289 AD2d 1085 [2001], lv denied 98 NY2d 635 [2002]). There is no support in the record for the further contention of defendant that the court failed to sentence her in accordance with a sentencing promise and, indeed, the terms of incarceration imposed were well within the statutorily-mandated limits (see Penal Law § 70.06 [3] [d], [e]; [4] [b]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Onondaga County Court (Walsh, J.), entered July 24, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of attempted murder in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: On appeal from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of attempted murder in the second degree (Penal Law §§ 110.00, 125.25 [1]) in satisfaction of a iO-count indictment, defendant contends that County Court erred in denying his motion to withdraw the plea. We reject that contention. Following jury selection, the court discussed with defendant the possibility of consecutive sentencing that defendant might face if he were convicted of kidnapping in the second degree (§ 135.20) in addition to attempted murder. The court suggested a term of incarceration of 10 years if defendant were to plead guilty to attempted murder in satisfaction of the entire indictment and stated that defendant would be allowed to withdraw his plea if the District Attorney did not agree to that sentence. A plea colloquy ensued and, after defendant stated that the allegations in the first count of the indictment were true, he was sworn and thoroughly examined. Defendant answered numerous questions in the affirmative, e.g., whether he knew' what was going on, whether the plea was entered voluntarily because he was guilty, whether he understood the enumerated rights he was waiving, whether he understood the sentence commitment, and whether he had enough time to discuss the matter with his attorney. He answered “no” when asked whether he had any questions for his attorney or the court. Before sentencing, defendant sent a letter to the court stating that he wished to withdraw his plea because he was innocent and his counsel had been ineffective. He repeated those contentions orally at sentencing, emphasizing that his attorney had not been communicative. We conclude that the court did not abuse its discretion in summarily denying defendant’s motion to withdraw the plea, which was “based upon generalized claims and conclusory allegations that are unsupported by the record” (People v Webley, 256 AD2d 1119, 1120 [1998], lv denied 93 NY2d 880 [1999]). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Cattaraugus County Court (Himelein, J.), entered June 10, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of aggravated harassment of an employee by an inmate. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of aggravated harassment of an employee by an inmate (Penal Law § 240.32) and sentencing him to an indeterminate term of imprisonment of V/s to 4 years. We reject defendant’s contention that the cell block at issue, located in the City of Salamanca Police Station, is not a “correctional facility” or “local correctional facility” within the meaning of section 240.32. Although section 240.32 does not define those terms, Correction Law § 40 (2) and (3) provide guidance with respect to the applicability of those terms to the facility herein. The definition of “local correctional facility” set forth in Correction Law § 40 (2) includes a “police station jail” and “correctional facility” is defined in Correction Law § 40 (3) as “any institution operated by the state department of correctional services, any local correctional facility, or any place used, pursuant to a contract with the state or a municipality, for the detention of persons charged with or convicted of a crime.” We therefore conclude that the cell block at issue is a local correctional facility for purposes of Penal Law § 240.32. Defendant further contends that the evidence is legally insufficient to support the conviction. We reject that contention. The People presented evidence that defendant, the only detainee in the cell block, defecated in his cell and threw the feces on the walls, door, floors and ceiling of the cell block area. They further presented evidence that the police officers on duty were unable to avoid contact with the feces in their efforts to clean the cell block area (see Penal Law § 240.32). We conclude that, when viewed in the light most favorable to the People, the evidence is legally sufficient to support the conviction (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). The sentence is neither unduly harsh nor severe. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Wyoming County Court (Dadd, J.), entered December 18, 1997, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, rape in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of rape in the first degree (Penal Law § 130.35 [1]) and three counts of assault in the second degree (§ 120.05 [2], [6]). Contrary to defendant’s contention, the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence. Although the victims were not able to identify defendant as the perpetrator and defendant testified to an alibi defense, the People presented, inter alia, defendant’s written confession to the crimes and DNA evidence that eliminated 99% of the population in the United States. Thus, it cannot be said that the jury failed to give the evidence the weight it should be accorded (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Defendant further contends that County Court erred in permitting the People to question a police officer concerning the photo array shown to the victims because the photo array had been dismantled and the court therefore was unable to determine whether it was unduly suggestive (see generally People v Bratton, 133 AD2d 408, 410-411 [1987], lv denied 70 NY2d 798 [1987]; People v Nelson, 79 AD2d 171, 173-174 [1981], cert denied sub nom. Usher v New York, 454 US 869 [1981]). We note that, prior to such questioning of the officer by the People, defense counsel referred to the photo array when he questioned one of the victims concerning the fact that she had been unable to identify defendant from it. Thus, defendant opened the door to such questioning by the People (see generally People v Melendez, 55 NY2d 445, 451-452 [1982]). In any event, any alleged error in the admission of testimony concerning the photo array is harmless. The victims were unable to identify defendant from the photo array, and thus such testimony was in fact favorable to defendant. We also reject the contention of defendant that his confession was involuntary because he was under the influence of LSD at the time of the confession and the police promised that he could “go home” if he cooperated. The record is devoid of any evidence that defendant was under the influence of drugs at the time of his confession, and the alleged promise that defendant could “go home” if he cooperated did not render the confession involuntary. “It is well established that police ‘stratagems need not result in involuntariness without some showing that the deception was so fundamentally unfair as to deny due process [citations omitted] or that a promise or threat was made that could induce a false confession’ ” (People v Lee, 277 AD2d 1006, 1007 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 785 [2001], quoting People v Tarsia, 50 NY2d 1, 11 [1980]; see People v Richardson, 202 AD2d 958, 958-959 [1994], lv denied 83 NY2d 914 [1994]). We further reject the contention of defendant that he was denied effective assistance of counsel (see People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 147 [1981]). We have reviewed defendant’s remaining contention and conclude that it is without merit. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ, Pine, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Brunetti, J.), entered September 10, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of robbery in the third degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of robbery in the third degree (Penal Law § 160.05). Contrary to the contention of defendant, the photo array from which the victim and another witness identified him was not unduly suggestive (see generally People v Chipp, 75 NY2d 327, 335-336 [1990], cert denied 498 US 833 [1990]). Although'there are some differences in the physical characteristics of the persons in the photo array, the differences are not such that defendant’s photograph “ ‘draws the viewer’s attention in such a way as to indicate that the police have made a particular selection’ ” (People v Ofield, 280 AD2d 978, 979 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 832 [2001]). Thus, it cannot be said that there was a “substantial likelihood that the defendant would be singled out for identification” (Chipp, 75 NY2d at 336; see People v Corchado, 299 AD2d 843, 844 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 581 [2003]; People v Moore, 294 AD2d 864 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 700 [2002]; People v Levy, 281 AD2d 984 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 831 [2001]; Ofield, 280 AD2d at 979). Because defendant did not establish that the photo array was unduly suggestive, we reject his further contention that the photo array tainted a subsequent lineup identification procedure. Defendant’s contention that the photo array should have been admitted in evidence to demonstrate to the jury that it was unduly suggestive has not been preserved for our review (see CPL 470.05 [2]), and we decline to exercise our power to review that contention as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). Contrary to the further contention of defendant, the 10-year period used in determining whether he is a second felony offender runs from the date of sentencing on the predicate felony, not from •the date of its commission (see Penal Law § 70.06, [1] [b] [iv]), and thus defendant was properly sentenced as a second felony offender. Finally, the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Present—Green, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Erie County Court (Drury, J.), entered August 23, 2001, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of burglary in the third degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of burglary in the third degree (Penal Law § 140.20). By pleading guilty, defendant forfeited review of his contention that the integrity of the grand jury proceedings was impaired by the reference of a witness to defendant’s parole status and by the prosecutor’s failure to give a circumstantial evidence charge (see People v Hansen, 95 NY2d 227, 231-232 [2000]; People v Gerber, 182 AD2d 252, 262 [1992], lv denied 80 NY2d 1026 [1992]). Defendant’s challenges to the rulings of the suppression court survive the guilty plea (see CPL 710.70 [2]), but those challenges are encompassed by defendant’s waiver of the right to appeal (see People v Kemp, 94 NY2d 831, 833 [1999]). That waiver also encompasses defendant’s challenge to the severity of the sentence (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733, 737 [1998]). Finally, defendant’s speculation that the number of grand jurors may not have satisfied statutory and constitutional requirements is insufficient to rebut the presumption of regularity that attaches to grand jury proceedings (see People v Grant, 215 AD2d 114 [1995], lv denied 86 NY2d 795 [1995]). Present— Green, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Brunetti, J.), entered August 16, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, criminal contempt in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment entered upon a jury verdict convicting him of assault in the third degree (Penal Law § 120.00 [1]), criminal contempt in the first degree (§ 215.51 [b] [v]), intimidating a victim or witness in the third degree (§ 215.15 [1]) and resisting arrest (§ 205.30). Defendant assaulted the complainant in July 2001 and went to her home two months later in violation of an order of protection, attempting to compel her to give false testimony in his favor. The complainant fled to the home of a neighbor, who called 911. Defendant thereafter resisted arrest when the police went to his apartment to speak to him. In both his main brief and his pro se supplemental brief, defendant contends that the verdict convicting him of criminal contempt and intimidating a victim or witness is against the weight of the evidence because the complainant was not a credible witness. We reject that contention. “The jury’s determination of credibility is entitled to great deference, and there is no basis for concluding that the jury failed to give the evidence the weight it should be accorded” (People v Regan, 302 AD2d 867, 868 [2003], lv denied 99 NY2d 657 [2003]). We further reject the contention of defendant in his pro se supplemental brief that Supreme Court abused its discretion in denying his motion to sever the count of the indictment charging assault in the third degree from the remaining counts of the indictment (see People v Tyran, 248 AD2d 1011 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 1054 [1999]). We also reject the contention of defendant in his pro se supplemental brief that he did not consent to the warrantless entry of his apartment by the police and that the evidence arising from his arrest therefore should have been suppressed (see People v Brown, 234 AD2d 211, 213 [1996], affd 91 NY2d 854 [1997]; People v Smith, 239 AD2d 219, 220-221 [1997], lv denied 90 NY2d 911 [1997]). We further conclude that the court properly allowed the arresting officer to testify with respect to his conversations with the complainant immediately prior to defendant’s arrest. Contrary to the contention of defendant in his pro se supplemental brief, the testimony was admissible to establish that the arrest was authorized (see People v Parris, 83 NY2d 342, 346 [1994]; People v Garcia, 284 AD2d 106, 108 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 641 [2001]; see also People v Mixon, 292 AD2d 177, 178 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 678 [2002]). Defendant additionally contends in his pro se supplemental brief that he was wrongfully denied the opportunity to appear before the grand jury. Defendant waived that contention, however, by failing to move to dismiss the indictment on that ground within five days after he was arraigned (see CPL 190.50 [5] [c]; People v Beyor, 272 AD2d 929, 930 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 832 [2000]). He also'contends in his pro se supplemental brief that he was improperly excluded from several bench conferences. That contention lacks merit, inasmuch as each of those bench conferences “involved a purely legal argument to which defendant had nothing to contribute” (People v Collins, 99 NY2d 14, 19 [2002]). The remaining contentions of defendant in his pro se supplemental brief are not preserved for our review (see 470.05 [2]), and we decline to exercise our power to review them as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). Present—Green, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Buscaglia, J), entered May 27, 2003, which granted defendant’s motion to suppress evidence and dismissed the indictment. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: On this appeal pursuant to CPL 450.20, the People contend that Supreme Court erred in determining that the police lacked reasonable suspicion to stop defendant’s vehicle and thus erred in granting defendant’s motion to suppress the evidence obtained subsequent to that stop and in dismissing the indictment. We reject that contention. The lack of a license plate on a vehicle generally will justify a stop of the vehicle for violation of Vehicle and Traffic Law § 402 (see People v Peart, 283 AD2d 14, 15-16 [2001], lv dismissed sub nom. People v Chang, 96 NY2d 939 [2001]; People v Johnson, 178 AD2d 549, 550 [1991], lv denied 79 NY2d 920 [1992]; People v Sherman, 106 AD2d 416, 416-417 [1984]). Here, however, upon stopping defendant’s vehicle, the officer observed that it had a Florida rear license plate and realized that no front plate was required. A mistake of fact, but not a mistake of law, may be used to justify a search and seizure (see People v Gonzalez, 88 NY2d 289, 295 [1996]; Matter of Byer v Jackson, 241 AD2d 943, 944-945 [1997]; People v Roberts, 196 AD2d 665, 666 [1993]; Johnson, 178 AD2d at 550). Because the officer admittedly realized his mistake before approaching defendant (see People v Perez, 149 AD2d 344, 345 [1989]; cf. Johnson, 178 AD2d at 550), the officer’s observations following the unlawful stop were properly suppressed as the unattenuated by-product of the stop (see People v Brooks, 266 AD2d 864 [1999]; People v Nicodemus, 247 AD2d 833, 836 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 858 [1998]; see generally People v William II, 98 NY2d 93, 98 [2002]; People v Banks, 85 NY2d 558, 562-563 [1995], cert denied 516 US 868 [1995]). Present—Green, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Cornelius, J.), entered December 8, 1998, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of robbery in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of robbery in the first degree (Penal Law § 160.15 [4]) and sentencing him as a second felony offender to a determinate term of incarceration of 10 years. The contention that defendant was denied effective assistance of counsel as a result of his first attorney’s failure to notify the prosecution of defendant’s desire to testify before the grand jury depends on facts outside the record and therefore must be raised by way of a motion pursuant to CPL article 440 (see People v Nicholson, 269 AD2d 868, 869 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 907 [2000]; People v Parker, 220 AD2d 815, 817 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 1023 [1996]; see also People v Galleria, 264 AD2d 899 [1999], lv denied 94 NY2d 880 [2000]). In any event, even assuming, arguendo, that defendant’s contention survives the guilty plea (but see People v Lewis, 296 AD2d 864 [2002]), we conclude that “defense counsel’s failure to notify the People that defendant wished to testify before the grand jury does not, by itself, amount to ineffective assistance of counsel” (People v Dennis, 295 AD2d 755, 756 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 534 [2002]; see People v Wiggins, 89 NY2d 872, 873 [1996]; People v Mejias, 293 AD2d 819, 820 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 699 [2002]). There is also no merit to defendant’s contention that the plea was invalid, and the right to effective assistance of counsel violated, as a result of counsel’s error in informing defendant that the bargained-for 10-year determinate sentence was the “minimum” possible term of incarceration (see People v Garcia, 92 NY2d 869, 870-871 [1998]; People v Modica, 64 NY2d 828, 829 [1985]; People v Jackson, 278 AD2d 875 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 759 [2001]; People v Cave, 278 AD2d 941 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 798 [2001]). Present—Green, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County (Forma, J.), entered May 24, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, murder in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of murder in the second degree (Penal Law § 125.25 [2]) and aggravated criminal contempt (§ 215.52). We reject the contention of defendant that he was denied a fair trial by the admission in evidence of a threatening letter written by defendant to the victim and the testimony of a coworker of the victim regarding a conversation she had with defendant in which he threatened to kill the victim if he had to go to jail because she reported a prior incident to police. Supreme Court properly admitted that evidence because it was probative of defendant’s motive and intent to kill the victim (see People v Zarif, 290 AD2d 401, 402 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 683 [2002]; People v Kanner, 272 AD2d 866, 867 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 867 [2000]; People v Rolf, 185 AD2d 656 [1992], lv denied 80 NY2d 933 [1992]). The verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]), and the sentence is neither unduly harsh nor severe. Contrary to the contention of defendant raised in his pro se supplemental brief, he received effective assistance of counsel (see People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 147 [1981]). Defendant failed to identify any conduct of his attorney that rendered her assistance ineffective (see People v Ivey, 272 AD2d 883 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 902 [2001]). The further contention of defendant raised in his pro se supplemental brief concerning the conduct of the prosecutor before the grand jury is not reviewable on appeal because the grand jury minutes are not included in the record on appeal (see People v Sumpter, 185 AD2d 629, 630 [1992], lv denied 80 NY2d 1030, 81 NY2d 848 [1992]; see also Matter of Shellito D., 226 AD2d 1075, 1075-1076 [1996]). The remaining contentions raised in defendant’s pro se supplemental brief are not preserved for our review (see CPL 470.05 [2]) and, in any event, are without merit. Present— Green, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Onondaga County (Rossi, J.), entered November 13, 2001, which dismissed the petition seeking modification and enforcement of the custody and visitation provisions of a prior order. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Family Court properly dismissed the petition seeking modification and enforcement of the custody and visitation provisions of a prior order. Approximately 10 months prior to the commencement of this proceeding, Family Court, Broome County, dismissed a proceeding seeking identical relief on the ground that it lacked jurisdiction over the proceeding under the Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction Act ([UCCJA] Domestic Relations Law former art 5-A). That ruling on the issue of jurisdiction “remains the law of the case, and it may not be contravened by a court of coordinate jurisdiction. . . . Having failed to take an appeal from the ruling, [petitioner] may not seek to directly overturn it” (Grossman v Meller, 213 AD2d 221, 224 [1995]). Further, there is no question that South Carolina is the child’s home state for UCCJA purposes (see former § 75-d [1] [a]), and the allegations of the petition are insufficient to support the court’s exercise of jurisdiction under former section 75-d (1) (b) (cf. Vernon v Vernon, 100 NY2d 960 [2003]). Present — Green, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Monroe County (Sciolino, J.), entered October 11, 2002, which adjudged that respondent is a juvenile delinquent. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Contrary to respondent’s contentions, the testimony of the three principal witnesses is not incredible as a matter of law, and thus we conclude that the evidence is legally sufficient to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that respondent committed the acts alleged in the petition (see Matter of Zachary K., 299 AD2d 755, 756-757 [2002]; Matter of Kryzstof K., 283 AD2d 431, 432 [2001]; Matter of Isaac Q., 217 AD2d 410, 411 [1995]). Moreover, upon the exercise of our independent power of factual review, we are satisfied that Family Court properly credited the testimony of the three principal witnesses and that its findings are not against the weight of the evidence (see Matter of Anthony S., 305 AD2d 689, 690 [2003]). We further reject the contention of respondent that his adjudication as a juvenile delinquent is “manifestly unfair” (Matter of Jessie C., 164 AD2d 731, 736 [1991], appeal dismissed 78 NY2d 907 [1991]), and thus we refuse to dismiss the petition in furtherance of justice pursuant to Family Ct Act § 315.2 (cf. Matter of Cerino P., 296 AD2d 868 [2002]; Matter of Deborah C., 261 AD2d 138 [1999]). Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order and judgment (one document) of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Centra, J.), entered January 21, 2003, that granted the motion of defendant Lampf, Lipkind, Prupis & Petigrow, PA. for summary judgment and dismissed the complaint against it. It is hereby ordered that the order and judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff, a purchaser of accounts receivable, commenced this action against defendant Lampf, Lipkind, Prupis & Petigrow, PA. (Lampf), alleging that Lampf had failed to make payments on a certain invoice that plaintiff had purchased from nonparty National Staffing, Inc. (National). Prior to the default, plaintiff and National jointly executed and sent to Lampf a “Blanket Notice of Payment Redirection” letter. The redirection letter concerned “payment of all current and future amounts owed by you to National,” and informed Lampf that plaintiff “has or may acquire” all rights in National’s invoices payable by Lampf. The redirection letter further notified Lampf to direct all future payments to National to plaintiff’s post office box address. That post office box was listed as plaintiffs address in the footer of the redirection letter, and the letter was signed by officers of both plaintiff and National and appeared on plaintiffs letterhead. Lampf moved for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it on the ground that it had sent a check payable to National to plaintiff’s post office box address, as the redirection letter instructed. In opposition, plaintiff contended that it never received the payment, and that the payment was diverted by someone at National. Supreme Court granted Lampf s motion, and we affirm. As a preliminary matter, we conclude that the redirection letter was sufficient to place Lampf on inquiry notice that there had been an assignment of its account from National to plaintiff because the letter reasonably identifies the rights to be assigned and notifies Lampf to direct payment to plaintiffs address (see UCC 9-406; Hamilton Group [Del.] v Federal Home Loan Bank of N.Y., 1 AD3d 973 [2003]). Nonetheless, the court properly granted the motion of Lampf for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it. Lampf met its initial burden of establishing entitlement to judgment as a matter of law through the affidavit of an employee who averred that she personally prepared the check and mailed it to the address indicated on the redirection letter. The unsworn statement of plaintiffs employee is insufficient to raise an issue of fact (see Barbarulo v Allery, 271 AD2d 897, 899 [2000]; see generally Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order of Supreme Court, Jefferson County (Schwerzmann, J.), entered December 6, 2002, denying that part of plaintiff’s motion to compel discovery, inspection and copying of defendants’ insurance and reinsurance policies and contracts and other documents. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by granting that part of plaintiffs motion to compel discovery, inspection and copying of defendants’ insurance and reinsurance policies and by ordering that such discovery, inspection and copying shall be concluded within 45 days of the date of service of a copy of the order of this Court with notice of entry and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: In this action by plaintiff to recover damages for medical malpractice, plaintiff appeals from that part of an order denying that part of her motion to compel discovery, inspection and copying of defendants’ insurance policies, as well as contracts and other documents showing the employment and/or staff privilege relationship among defendant hospitals and certain physicians, some of whom are defendants herein. Supreme Court erred in denying that part of plaintiffs motion with respect to defendants’ insurance and reinsurance policies. CPLR 3101 (f), entitled “Contents of insurance agreement,” provides that a “party may obtain discovery of the existence and contents of any insurance agreement under which any person carrying on an insurance business may be hable to satisfy part or all of a judgment which may be entered in the action or to indemnify or reimburse for payments made to satisfy the judgment.” The statute entitles plaintiff to disclosure of the policies themselves (see Sullivan v Brooklyn-Caledonian Hosp., 213 AD2d 474, 475 [1995]; PCB Piezotronics v Change, 179 AD2d 1089 [1992]; Kimbell v Davis, 81 AD2d 855 [1981]). We have considered plaintiffs remaining challenge to the order on appeal and conclude that it is without merit. Present—Green, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Steuben County (Sirkin, J.), entered September 11, 2002, which equitably distributed the parties’ assets. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff wife commenced this action seeking equitable distribution of marital property after obtaining a foreign divorce. Supreme Court erred in failing to set forth the factors it considered and the reasons for its determination with respect to the equitable distribution of the parties’ assets (see Domestic Relations Law § 236 [B] [5] [d], [g]; O’Brien v O’Brien, 66 NY2d 576, 589 [1985]). However, we exercise our authority to make the necessary determinations where, as here, the record is sufficient to allow us to do so. Plaintiff does not dispute the court’s valuation of the marital assets, but rather, contends that she is entitled to a greater than 50% share of those assets. In particular, plaintiff contends that she should be awarded the entire equity in the marital residence. We disagree. The parties were married in India and, at the time of the marriage, defendant owned property in India but neither party had any income. The parties moved to the United States shortly thereafter and remained here for much of the duration of their 18-year marriage. During the marriage, defendant worked while plaintiff stayed at home and cared for the children. At the time of the commencement of the divorce action, defendant earned approximately $4,500 per month and plaintiff was unemployed. The parties were divorced in India in 1996 and the Indian court ordered defendant to pay maintenance to plaintiff. At the time of trial, defendant resided in the marital residence in New York while plaintiff resided in India. Although plaintiff is currently unemployed, she has a Master’s degree in special education. Under these circumstances, the court properly divided the marital assets equally (see Harrington v Harrington, 300 AD2d 861, 862 [2002]; Atwal v Atwal [appeal No. 2], 270 AD2d 799 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 761 [2000]). Contrary to the further contention of plaintiff, the court did not abuse its discretion in denying her request to testify by telephone. Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Jefferson County (Gilbert, J.), entered August 8, 2002, which denied plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced this action seeking judgment declaring that defendant did not effectively abandon Babbitts Corner Road, which borders plaintiffs’ property. Supreme Court properly denied plaintiffs’ motion insofar as it sought summary judgment on the complaint. Although plaintiffs submitted proof establishing that defendant did not comply with the procedural requirements of Highway Law § 205 (1), plaintiffs failed to establish that the road was at one time a town road and that it was not abandoned by operation of law (see Matter of Wills v Town of Orleans, 236 AD2d 889, 890 [1997]; Van Nostrand v Town of Denning, 132 AD2d 93, 97 [1987]; see generally Pless v Town of Royalton, 185 AD2d 659 [1992], affd 81 NY2d 1047 [1993]). The court declined to rule on plaintiffs’ motion insofar as it sought summary judgment dismissing the affirmative defense of the statute of limitations, and we do not reach the parties’ contentions concerning that affirmative defense (see Matter of Trader v State of New York, 277 AD2d 978 [2000]). Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Centra, J.), entered January 23, 2003, which granted the motion of defendant Federal Home Loan Bank of New York to dismiss the complaint against it. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, the motion is denied and the complaint against defendant Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is reinstated. Memorandum: Plaintiff, a purchaser of accounts receivable, commenced this action against defendant Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (Federal), alleging that Federal had failed to pay three invoices that plaintiff had purchased from nonparty National Staffing, Inc. (National). Prior to the alleged default, plaintiff and National jointly executed and sent to Federal a “Blanket Notice of Payment Redirection” letter. The redirection letter concerned “payment of all current and future amounts owed by you to National,” and informed Federal that plaintiff “has or may acquire” all rights in National’s invoices payable by Federal. The redirection letter further notified Federal to direct all future payments to National to plaintiffs post office box address. That post office box was listed as plaintiffs address in the footer of the redirection letter, and the letter was signed by officers of both plaintiff and National and appeared on plaintiffs letterhead. Supreme Court granted the motion of Federal to dismiss the complaint against it based on documentary evidence (see CPLR 3211 [a] [1]), on the ground that the redirection letter was insufficient to give notice of National’s assignment of the invoices to plaintiff. We reverse. The redirection letter was sufficient to place Federal on inquiry notice that the invoices at issue had been assigned from National to plaintiff because it reasonably identifies the rights to be assigned and notifies Federal to direct payment to plaintiff’s address (see UCC 9-406; General Motors Acceptance Corp. v Albany Water Bd., 187 AD2d 894, 896 [1992]; Continental Purch. Co. v Van Raalte Co., 251 App Div 151, 152 [1937]; see also Capital Factors v Caldor, Inc., 182 AD2d 532 [1992]). If Federal had any doubt whether the payment had been assigned or concerning the proper payee (see 9-406, Comments 2, 4), it should have contacted plaintiff for proof of the assignment (see 9-406 [c]) with “reasonable promptness” (9-406, Comment 3). Because we conclude that the documentary evidence submitted by Federal does not conclusively establish a defense to the asserted claims as a matter of law (see generally Leon v Martinez, 84 NY2d 83, 88 [1994]; Technology for Measurement v Briggs, 291 AD2d 902, 903 [2002]), we reverse the order, deny the motion of Federal, and reinstate the complaint against it. Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Bergin, J.), entered December 11, 2002, which granted the motion of defendant Maurer Company, Inc. for summary judgment dismissing the cross claims against it. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, the motion is denied, and the cross claims are reinstated. Memorandum: Plaintiff commenced this action seeking damages for injuries she sustained when she was struck by a swinging automatic door. She initially commenced the action against Wesley Gardens (Wesley), the owner of the building, The Stanley Works (Stanley), the manufacturer of the door, and Maurer Company, Inc. (Maurer), which sold and installed the door. After plaintiff discontinued her action against Maurer, Maurer moved for summary judgment dismissing the cross claims of Wesley and Stanley against it, and Supreme Court granted the motion. We reverse. Maurer contends that it met its initial burden on the motion by establishing that “[s]ervice people were instructed to provide . . . clients with a daily safety check document” and that Wesley cannot establish as a matter of law that it did not receive the daily safety checklist when the doors were installed in 1988. We disagree. Maurer is not entitled to summary judgment based solely on claimed deficiencies in Wesley’s proof (see Hicks v City of Buffalo, 281 AD2d 922 [2001]). In any event, although proof of practice is generally admissible (see Halloran v Virginia Chems., 41 NY2d 386, 391-392 [1977]; Soltis v State of New York, 188 AD2d 201, 203 [1993]), that proof was not conclusive here. We also reject the contention of Maurer that its alleged failure to provide Wesley with a daily safety checklist was not as a matter of law in any way associated with the happening of the accident. There are issues of fact whether Wesley was properly instructed to inspect the door on a daily basis to ensure that it was operating correctly and whether any defect in the door would have been readily apparent had such instruction been provided (see Shubert v Bennett Mfg. Co., 201 AD2d 285, 286 [1994]). Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment (denominated order) of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Sirkin, J.), entered March 13, 2003, which dismissed the CPLR article 78 petition. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs (see Matter of Eric D. [appeal No. 1], 162 AD2d 1051 [1990]). Present—Green, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an amended judgment (denominated amended order) of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Sirkiri, J.), entered March 28, 2003, which dismissed the CPLR article 78 petition. It is hereby ordered that said amended judgment be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Petitioner commenced this proceeding seeking to invalidate the action of respondent County of Monroe (County) and its licensee, respondent LeBeau, Inc., doing business as Beau Productions, Inc. (LeBeau), in charging members of the general public a per-vehicle admission fee to drive through a section of Northampton County Park and view a seasonal light display erected by LeBeau. Supreme Court properly dismissed the petition. Contrary to petitioner’s contention, the imposition of a fee to drive past the light show does not violate County Law § 221, which in pertinent part provides that “county parks shall be kept and maintained for the free use of the public, subject to such regulations as the [county legislature] may impose.” The record establishes that the fee is charged only to occupants of vehicles who seek to drive past the light show, which lasts only a few hours per evening approximately eight weeks per year. Even during that eight-week period, the park remains completely open and accessible during daylight hours to all members of the public, in or out of vehicles, without charge. Moreover, even during the evening hours when the light show is presented, almost all of the park remains open to vehicular traffic without impediment or charge. Further, there is free pedestrian access throughout the park at all times, even to the light show itself. We thus conclude that neither petitioner nor anyone else has been deprived of the “free use” of the park (§ 221). In any event, the County’s action in granting to LeBeau the right to operate the light show in the County park and to charge an admission fee to defray LeBeau’s up-front investment and operating expenses is permissible under the statute. The use in question tends to promote popular enjoyment of and recreation in the park and thus does not deviate from the public purposes for which the park was established (see generally 795 Fifth Ave. Corp. v City of New York, 15 NY2d 221, 225-226 [1965]; Matter of Committee to Preserve Brighton Beach & Manhattan Beach v Planning Commn. of City of N.Y., 259 AD2d 26, 36 [1999]; Davis v City of New York, 50 Misc 2d 275, 279-280 [1966]; cf. Williams v Gallatin, 229 NY 248, 253-254 [1920]; Johnson v Town of Brookhaven, 230 AD2d 774, 774-775 [1996]; Matter of Central Parkway, 140 Misc 727, 729 [1931]). Present—Green, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Erie County Court (Drury, J.), entered November 29, 2000, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of, inter alia, robbery in the second degree (two counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of two counts of robbery in the second degree (Penal Law § 160.10 [1], [2] [a]) and one count of assault in the second degree (§ 120.05) (appeal No. 1). Defendant also appeals from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of, inter alia, driving while intoxicated as a felony (Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1192 [3]; § 1193 [1] [c] [ii]) (appeal No. 2). Defendant was sentenced to concurrent terms of incarceration on both convictions. We reject the People’s contention that defendant waived his right to appeal. The single reference to the waiver of the right to appeal, made on a date preceding the actual date of the pleas, is “insufficient to establish that [County Court] ‘ engage [d] the defendant in an adequate colloquy to ensure that the waiver of the right to appeal was a knowing and voluntary choice’ ” (People v Brown, 296 AD2d 860, 860 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 767 [2002]; see People v Callahan, 80 NY2d 273, 283 [1992]; People v Cohen, 210 AD2d 343 [1994], lv denied 85 NY2d 937 [1995]). We therefore address the merits of defendant’s appeals. We reject the contention of defendant that the stop of his vehicle following the robbery and assault was not supported by the requisite reasonable suspicion and was improperly based on information from an anonymous source. It is well settled that “[a]n identified citizen informant is presumed to be reliable” (People v Rivera, 210 AD2d 895, 895-896 [1994]; see People v Hetrick, 80 NY2d 344, 349 [1992]). In this case, the 911 caller gave police “ ‘self-identifying information’ ” (People v Dixon, 289 AD2d 937, 937 [2001], lv denied 98 NY2d 637 [2002]) and “[i]t is readily inferable from the suppression hearing evidence that the [bartender and patrons in the bar] at the time of the robbery were the source of the [officers’] information” (Rivera, 210 AD2d at 895; see People v Parris, 83 NY2d 342, 349-350 [1994]). Moreover, the police went to the scene of the crimes and identified the witnesses before the stop of defendant’s vehicle. Therefore, the information relied upon by the police was not obtained from an anonymous source (see e.g. Parris, 83 NY2d at 349-350; Dixon, 289 AD2d at 937; People v Gasby, 288 AD2d 487, 488 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 704 [2002]). The information given by the citizen informants established the type and color of the vehicle driven by the suspect. The informants also gave the police information identifying at least one of the suspects by name. Based on that information, the police went to a location near that suspect’s home to wait for the vehicle to pass. A vehicle matching the description of the suspects’ vehicle was spotted on one of two likely routes from the scene of the crime to the identified suspect’s home. The vehicle was spotted approximately 10 to 15 minutes after the crime, which is consistent with the length of time it would take to drive from the scene of the crime to the location of the stop. Finally, both the crimes and the stop took place in the early morning hours when traffic was very light. Under the circumstances of this case, we conclude that the court properly determined that the police had the requisite reasonable suspicion to stop the vehicle (see e.g. People v Glaze, 255 AD2d 932 [1998], lv denied 93 NY2d 853 [1999]; People v Willsey, 198 AD2d 911 [1993], lv denied 83 NY2d 812 [1994]; People v Johnson, 102 AD2d 616, 622-623 [1984], lv denied 63 NY2d 776 [1984]). Because we affirm the judgment of conviction in appeal No. 1, there is no merit to defendant’s contention that the plea on the indictment in appeal No. 2 should be vacated pursuant to People v Fuggazzatto (62 NY2d 862, 863 [1984]). The agreed-upon sentences are neither unduly harsh nor severe. Present—Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Erie County Court (Drury, J.), entered November 29, 2000, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of, inter alia, driving while intoxicated as a felony. It is hereby ordered thát the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Same memorandum as in People v Van Every (1 AD3d 977 [2003]). Present—Pine, J.P., Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Steuben County Court (Bradstreet, J.), entered August 20, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, rape in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by reversing that part convicting defendant of rape in the first degree and vacating the sentence imposed thereon and as modified the judgment is affirmed, and a new trial is granted on count one of the indictment. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of rape in the first degree (Penal Law § 130.35 [1]) and criminal trespass in the second degree (§ 140.15). The primary contention of defendant on appeal is that County Court erred in allowing the People to present evidence beyond the scope of the indictment and bill of particulars with respect to the charge of rape, thus changing the theory of the prosecution. We agree, and conclude that reversal of the rape conviction is mandated on that ground. The first count of the indictment charged defendant with rape in the first degree, alleging that he “engag[ed] in sexual intercourse with another person by forcible compulsion.” In his demand for a bill of particulars, defendant sought clarification of “the exact manner in which [he] forcibly compelled the other person to engage in sexual intercourse.” The People responded that “the defendant did physically threaten the victim indicating that he knew people who would come over and ‘take care of the situation’ if she did not comply.” At trial, the People sought to introduce evidence of another threat, i.e., that defendant threatened to hit the victim if she did not cease struggling. Defendant objected on the ground that such proof was outside the scope of the bill of particulars. The court overruled the objection, and the People also thereafter introduced evidence of the use of physical force, i.e., that defendant dragged the victim toward a bedroom, attempted to remove her clothes, and pinned her to the bed. In presenting theories different from those set forth in the indictment and bill of particulars (see generally Matter of Corbin v Hillery, 74 NY2d 279, 290 [1989], affd sub nom. Grady v Corbin, 495 US 508, [1990] overruled on other grounds United States v Dixon, 509 US 688 [1993]), the People violated defendant’s “fundamental and nonwaivable” right to be tried on only those crimes charged in the indictment (People v Rubin, 101 AD2d 71, 77 [1984], lv denied 63 NY2d 711 [1984]), as limited by the bill of particulars (see generally Matter of Corbin, 74 NY2d at 290). In addition, we agree with defendant that the error was further exacerbated by the court’s charge to the jury. Even assuming, arguendo, that the error in the charge is not preserved for our review based on defendant’s earlier objection to the scope of the proof presented by the People, we would nevertheless conclude that preservation is not required (see Rubin, 101 AD2d at 77; see also People v Patterson, 39 NY2d 288, 294-295 [1976], affd 432 US 197 [1977]). In order to prove that defendant committed the crime of rape in the first degree, the People had to establish that defendant engaged in sexual intercourse by “forcible compulsion” (Penal Law § 130.35 [1]). Forcible compulsion is defined in relevant part as the “use of physical force” or “a threat, express or implied, which places a person in fear of immediate death or physical injury to . . . herself’ (§ 130.00 [8] [a], [b]). The court charged the jury on the definition of forcible compulsion as both the use of physical force or the threat of immediate harm but, given the limited scope of the indictment and bill of particulars, that was error (see People v Kaminski, 58 NY2d 886, 887 [1983]; cf. People v Wieber, 202 AD2d 789, 791-792 [1994], lv denied 84 NY2d 834 [1994]; see also People v Charles, 61 NY2d 321, 328-329 [1984]; People v Norfleet, 267 AD2d 881, 883-884 [1999], lv denied 95 NY2d 801 [2000]; see generally People v Termotto, 155 AD2d 965 [1989], lv denied 75 NY2d 925 [1990]). We note that, in People v Grega (72 NY2d 489 [1988]), the trial court charged the jury on both physical force and threats despite the fact that the indictment alleged only physical force and the jury was presented with evidence of only physical force. The Court of Appeals held that the error in the trial court’s charge was harmless because “the jury’s guilty verdict could only have been based on the evidence of actual physical force as charged in the indictment” (id. at 496). That is not so here, inasmuch as the victim testified to the use of force, which was not set forth in the indictment or bill of particulars, and to an additional threat not set forth therein. We therefore modify the judgment by reversing that part convicting defendant of rape in the first degree and vacating the sentence imposed thereon, and we grant a new trial on count one of the indictment (see Kaminski, 58 NY2d at 887; cf. Grega, 72 NY2d at 497). In view of our determination to grant a new trial, we address defendant’s remaining contentions in the interest of judicial economy. Contrary to defendant’s contention, it is well established that coercion in the second degree (Penal Law § 135.60) is not a lesser included offense of rape in the first degree (see People v Thurston, 167 AD2d 964, 964-965 [1990], lv denied 79 NY2d 924 [1992]; People v Corley, 162 AD2d 1020 [1990], lv denied 76 NY2d 892 [1990]; People v Tiedemann, 111 AD2d 280, 280-281 [1985]; see generally People v Glover, 57 NY2d 61, 63 [1982]). Contrary to defendant’s further contention, the court did not abuse its discretion in ruling that the statements of the victim to her ex-brother-in-law soon after the rape constituted excited utterances (see People v Brooks, 71 NY2d 877, 879 [1988]; People v Brown, 70 NY2d 513, 517-522 [1987]; People v Edwards, 47 NY2d 493, 497-498 [1979]; People v Whitlatch, 294 AD2d 909 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 703 [2002]). In addition, the testimony of the ex-brother-in-law on the issue whether a rape occurred was admissible as evidence of a prompt complaint of rape (see generally People v Torres, 175 AD2d 635, 636 [1991], lv denied 78 NY2d 1082 [1991]; see also People v McDaniel, 81 NY2d 10, 16-17 [1993]). The further contention of defendant that he was deprived of a fair trial based on the court’s response to a jury question during deliberations is not preserved for our review (see CPL 470.05 [2]; see generally People v Miller, 286 AD2d 981 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 657 [2001]), and we decline to exercise our power to review that contention as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). We have examined defendant’s remaining contentions and conclude that they are lacking in merit. Present—Pine, J.P., Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Monroe County Court (Geraci, Jr., J.), entered March 28, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, robbery in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him of robbery in the first degree (Penal Law § 160.15 [4]) and robbery in the second degree (§ 160.10 [1]). We agree with defendant that the failure of the People to disclose the prior convictions of the sole eyewitness violated their obligations under Brady v Maryland (373 US 83 [1963]). The criminal record of a prosecution witness constitutes exculpatory material within the meaning of Brady (see People v Pressley, 234 AD2d 954 [1996] [appeal No. 2], affd 91 NY2d 825 [1997]; People v Arac, 297 AD2d 560 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 580 [2003]; People v Pimentel, 282 AD2d 280, 281 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 923 [2001]; People v Workman, 277 AD2d 1029, 1030 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 764 [2001]). That rule accords with the principle that the People’s disclosure obligations under Brady extend beyond matters that tend to establish defendant’s innocence and include material evidence that impeaches “the credibility of a prosecution witness whose testimony may be determinative of guilt or innocence” (People v Baxley, 84 NY2d 208, 213 [1994]; see People v Steadman, 82 NY2d 1, 7 [1993]; People v Hawes, 298 AD2d 706, 708 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 582 [2003]; see generally United States v Bagley, 473 US 667, 677-678 [1985]). It is not determinative that the prosecutor denied any contemporaneous actual knowledge of the eyewitness’s criminal convictions as a consequence of his self-professed standard practice of not checking into such matters. “The requirement that the Brady material be in the People’s possession or control . . . has not been interpreted narrowly” (People v Santorelli, 95 NY2d 412, 421 [2000]; see People v Bryce, 88 NY2d 124, 128 [1996]; People v Vilardi, 76 NY2d 67, 73 [1990]). “A prosecutor must learn of any favorable evidence known to the others acting on the government’s behalf in the case’ and promptly disclose any such material evidence to the defendant” (Santorelli, 95 NY2d at 421; see People v Wright, 86 NY2d 591, 598 [1995]; People v Novoa, 70 NY2d 490, 498 [1987]). Here, the criminal record of the eyewitness was readily available to the prosecutor and certainly known to other individuals in his office who recently had prosecuted the eyewitness (see Pressley, 234 AD2d at 954). We nonetheless conclude under the circumstances of this case, in which there was no specific request for the exculpatory material in question, that there is no “reasonable probability” that the verdict would have been different had the material been disclosed to the defense and presented to the trier of fact (Hawes, 298 AD2d at 708; see People v Hale, 286 AD2d 987, 988 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 656 [2001]; People v Jones, 272 AD2d 930, 931 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 891 [2000]; see generally Bryce, 88 NY2d at 126, 128). We reject the contention that defendant was denied effective assistance of counsel. The evidence, the law and the circumstances of this case, viewed in totality and as of the time of the representation, establish that defendant received meaningful representation (see People v Davis, 307 AD2d 722, 723 [2003]; see generally People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 147 [1981]). Contrary to defendant’s further contention, the proof offered by the prosecution at trial did not materially vary from the allegations set forth in the indictment (see People v Rivera, 84 NY2d 766, 771 [1995]; People v Grega, 72 NY2d 489, 496 [1988]; People v Spann, 56 NY2d 469, 472-474 [1982]; People v Wynn, 277 AD2d 946 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 765 [2001]). The evidence is legally sufficient to support the conviction and the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Crawford, 299 AD2d 848, 849 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 581, 653 [2003]; People v Sullivan, 299 AD2d 933, 933-934 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 585 [2003]; see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). The sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. We have considered the contentions raised in defendant’s pro se supplemental brief and conclude that they are without merit. Present—Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Erie County Court (Drury, J.), entered April 4, 2001, convicting defendant of, inter alia, burglary in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him of burglary in the second degree (Penal Law § 140.25 [2]) and criminal possession of stolen property in the fifth degree (§ 165.40). At a trial on both counts, the jury found defendant guilty of the possession count, but deadlocked on the burglary count. After County Court declared a mistrial on that count, defendant was retried and convicted on the burglary count. Contrary to defendant’s contention, the evidence is legally sufficient at both trials to establish that the house defendant entered unlawfully was a “dwelling” within the meaning of section 140.25 (2), and thus is legally sufficient to support the conviction of burglary in the second degree. The evidence establishes that the building at issue could have been occupied overnight and that property owned by the deceased owner was still in the house at the time of defendant’s unlawful entry (see People v Barney, 99 NY2d 367, 370-372 [2003]). Further, a sister of the deceased owner was taking care of the house, and a granddaughter of the deceased owner planned to move into the house once the estate was settled. Thus, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the People, we conclude that there is a valid line of reasoning by which the jury could have concluded that the house was “usually occupied by a person lodging therein at night” (§ 140.00 [3]; see Barney, 99 NY2d at 370-372). We further conclude that the evidence is legally sufficient to support the conviction of criminal possession of stolen property. Because the evidence with respect to the burglary charge was legally sufficient at the first trial, we reject the further contention of defendant that his retrial on that charge violates the constitutional prohibition against double jeopardy (compare People v Hart, 100 NY2d 550, 551 [2003]). Defendant’s challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence before the grand jury is not reviewable on appeal from the judgment of conviction (see People v Taylor, 225 AD2d 640 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 943 [1996]). Finally, reversal is not required based on the two instances in which defendant was in handcuffs in the jury’s presence, inasmuch as the instances were both brief and inadvertent and we can perceive no prejudice to defendant (see People v Harper, 47 NY2d 857, 858 [1979]). Present—Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Doyle, J.), entered October 21, 1993, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, murder in the second degree (three counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of three counts of murder in the second degree (Penal Law § 125.25 [1], [3]) and one count of attempted murder in the second degree (§§ 110.00, 125.25 [1]). Defendant’s contention that Supreme Court did not follow the requisite three-step analysis when defendant raised a Batson challenge is not preserved for our review (see People v Parker, 304 AD2d 146, 156 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 585 [2003]; see also People v Crawford, 299 AD2d 848, 849 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 653 [2003]) and, in any event, is without merit. At the outset, we note that the issue whether defendant established a prima facie case of discrimination under the first step of the analysis is moot because the court continued with the three-step analysis and ruled on the ultimate issues of purposeful discrimination and pretext (see People v Smocum, 99 NY2d 418, 422-423 [2003]; People v James, 99 NY2d 264, 270 [2002]; People v Payne, 88 NY2d 172, 181-182 [1996]). The prosecutor met his burden of production in this case under step two of the analysis by setting forth facially race-neutral reasons for exercising a peremptory challenge with respect to a black juror (see Smocum, 99 NY2d at 423). The court accepted the prosecutor’s race-neutral reasons and denied the challenge, thereby implicitly determining that those reasons were not pretextual (see Parker, 304 AD2d at 156-157). That determination is entitled to great deference and is supported by the record (see People v Barney, 295 AD2d 1001, 1001-1002 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 766 [2002]; People v Jones, 289 AD2d 962 [2001], lv denied 98 NY2d 652 [2002]; People v Carelock, 278 AD2d 851 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 757 [2001]). The court properly denied defendant’s motion to set aside the verdict based upon juror misconduct (see CPL 330.30 [2]). Defendant made the motion after it was revealed that a juror had knowledge of the layout of the apartment where the crime was committed and shared that knowledge with the other jurors. The juror was familiar with the apartment because he had installed appliances at that apartment complex. At the hearing on the motion, the juror in question testified that, although he believed that a diagram of the apartment that was introduced in evidence was inaccurate, his knowledge of the layout of the apartment did not affect his verdict. In addition, the other jurors who testified at the hearing indicated that they were not influenced by that juror’s comments. Thus, under the facts of this case, defendant was not prejudiced by the juror’s comments during deliberation (see generally People v Maragh, 94 NY2d 569, 573-574 [2000]; People v Brown, 48 NY2d 388, 393 [1979]). Defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that the court erred in charging the jury that it was to draw no adverse inference from defendant’s failure to testify in the absence of any request from defendant to so charge (see People v Rozanski, 209 AD2d 1018 [1994], lv denied 84 NY2d 1038 [1995]). In any event, the error is harmless (see People v Koberstein, 66 NY2d 989, 991 [1985]; People v Davis, 251 AD2d 1072 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 895 [1998]; Rozanski, 209 AD2d at 1018). Because attempted manslaughter in the first degree (Penal Law §§ 110.00, 125.20 [1]) is a nonexistent crime, the court properly denied defendant’s request to charge it as a lesser included offense of attempted murder in the second degree (see People v Martinez, 81 NY2d 810, 811-812 [1993]; People v McDavis, 97 AD2d 302, 303-304 [1983]). The court also properly denied defendant’s request to charge the affirmative defense of extreme emotional disturbance (see Penal Law § 125.25 [1] [a]) because the evidence did not support such a charge (see People v Savage, 148 AD2d 553 [1989], lv denied 74 NY2d 668 [1989]; see generally People v Roche, 98 NY2d 70, 75 [2002]). The court did not abuse its discretion in admitting a videotape of the crime scene in evidence (see People v Hill, 281 AD2d 917, 918 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 902 [2001]; People v Law, 273 AD2d 897, 898 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 965 [2000]). By presenting evidence after the court denied his motion to dismiss the third count of the indictment, defendant waived review of the court’s denial of his motion at the close of the People’s proof, and defendant failed to renew the motion at the close of all the proof (see People v Hines, 97 NY2d 56, 61 [2001], rearg denied 97 NY2d 678 [2001]; People v Zeigler, 305 AD2d 1100 [2003]). In any event, the court properly denied the motion, inasmuch as the evidence is legally sufficient to support the conviction on that charge. Defendant did not preserve for our review his contention that the court improperly charged accomplice liability with respect to the lesser included offense of manslaughter in the first degree under count one of the indictment (see CPL 470.05 [2]). In any event, that contention is without merit because a defendant may be convicted of manslaughter in the first degree as either a principal or an accessory (see People v Lewis, 300 AD2d 827, 829 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 630 [2003]; People v Kellogg, 210 AD2d 912, 913 [1994], lv denied 86 NY2d 737 [1995]). We have reviewed defendant’s remaining contentions and conclude that they are without merit. Present—Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an amended order of Family Court, Oneida County (Flemma, J.H.O.), entered April 25, 2002, which dismissed the petition seeking to transfer primary physical custody. It is hereby ordered that the amended order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by denying respondent’s motion and denying the petition on the merits insofar as it sought a change in primary physical custody of the two youngest children and as modified the amended order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Petitioner commenced this proceeding seeking to transfer primary physical custody of three of the parties’ four children to petitioner. Primary physical custody of the eldest child had already been transferred to petitioner upon respondent’s consent. Following the filing of the petition, respondent consented to a transfer of primary physical custody of the second eldest child. A hearing was held concerning the parties’ two youngest sons. Family Court erred in granting respondent’s motion to dismiss the petition made at the close of petitioner’s case and renewed at the end of the hearing. We conclude that petitioner met his burden of demonstrating a sufficient change in circumstances to require consideration of the welfare of the children (cf. Matter of Gademsky v Masset, 213 AD2d 1011, 1011-1012 [1995]; Matter of Boedecker-Frey v Boedecker-Frey, 176 AD2d 392, 393 [1991]). Following the parties’ divorce, respondent moved with the children from a suburban school district to the City of Utica. Thereafter, the two eldest children were permitted to live with petitioner and remain in their original school district. Although the relocation did not deprive petitioner of meaningful access to the younger children, when combined with the separation of the siblings, it did constitute “a change of circumstances warranting a reexamination of the existing custody arrangement” (Matter of Muniz v Paradizo, 258 AD2d 970, 970 [1999]; see Matter of Dacey v Dacey, 214 AD2d 790, 791-792 [1995]; Matter of Giovannone v Giovannone, 206 AD2d 869 [1994], lv denied 84 NY2d 805 [1994]). While the court erred in determining that petitioner did not meet his initial burden on the petition, because the court proceeded with a full hearing, we have an adequate record and may make the custody determination “in the interest of judicial economy and to avoid further delay” (Matter of Guzzey v Titus, 220 AD2d 976, 976 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 807 [1996]; see e.g. Matter of Hilliard v Peroni, 245 AD2d 1107 [1997]; Matter of Michael G.B. v Angela L.B., 219 AD2d 289, 292 [1996]). “A change of custody should be made only if the totality of the circumstances warrants a change that is in the best interests of the child” (Matter of Salvati v Salvati, 221 AD2d 541, 542 [1995]; see Friederwitzer v Friederwitzer, 55 NY2d 89, 96 [1982]; Matter of Ammann v Ammann, 209 AD2d 1032, 1033 [1994]; Matter of Sullivan v Sullivan, 190 AD2d 852 [1993], lv denied 81 NY2d 706 [1993]). “Among the factors to be considered are the quality of the home environment and the parental guidance the custodial parent provides for the child . . . , the ability of each parent to provide for the child’s emotional and intellectual development . . . , the financial status and ability of each parent to provide for the child . . . , the relative fitness of the respective parents, and the length of time the present custody arrangement has been in effect” (Matter of Krebsbach v Gallagher, 181 AD2d 363, 364 [1992], lv denied 81 NY2d 701 [1992]; see Eschbach v Eschbach, 56 NY2d 167 [1982]; Friederwitzer, 55 NY2d at 94). Priority, in the first instance, will be accorded an existing custodial arrangement, but the weight to be accorded a prior custodial arrangement depends on whether the prior disposition resulted from a full hearing or a stipulation (see Friederwitzer, 55 NY2d at 94-95; see also Eschbach, 56 NY2d at 172). It is also important to note that “[c]ourts should be reluctant to separate siblings” (Salerno v Salerno, 273 AD2d 818, 819 [2000]; see Eschbach, 56 NY2d at 173). However, “the existence or absence of any one factor cannot be determinative on appellate review since the court is to consider the totality of the circumstances” (Eschbach, 56 NY2d at 174). Finally, courts are “not required to adopt the recommendation of a Law Guardian” (Salerno, 273 AD2d at 819; Matter of Groth v Groth, 239 AD2d 953 [1997]). Based on our review of the record, we conclude that a change of primary physical custody is not required in the best interests of the two youngest children. Although the separation of siblings is unfortunate, the younger children will benefit more from the stability and structure of respondent’s home, where each child has his own room. Further, the children are now attending a magnet school and doing well. The children have lived with respondent since birth and the change in schools and residence of the two older Siblings Does Not Require a Change of Primary Physical Custody in the Best Interests of the Youngest Children. We therefore modify the amended order by denying respondent’s motion and denying the petition on the merits insofar as it sought a change in primary physical custody of the two youngest children. We otherwise affirm. Present—Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Jefferson County (Hunt, J.), entered October 15, 2002, which, inter alia, granted that part of the application of Robert R. Baker, Jr. seeking attorney’s fees. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by denying that part of the application of Robert R. Baker, Jr. seeking an award of attorney’s fees and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: By order to show cause, Robert R. Baker, Jr. (Baker) sought vacatur of orders of paternity and support mistakenly filed against him based on a clerical error, the return of support payments and arrears erroneously taken from him pursuant to án income execution, and attorney’s fees. Approximately three months after sending the income execution to Baker’s employer, the Jefferson County Support Collection Unit (SCU) discovered that Baker had been mistakenly identified as the support obligor based on an incorrect social security number. The SCU immediately terminated the income execution and attempted to issue a refund to Baker for the funds deducted from his paycheck. However, through a second clerical error, the refund was misdirected and thus was not sent to Baker until approximately one year later, when the SCU discovered the error. We agree with the SCU that Family Court erred in granting that part of the application seeking an award of attorney’s fees. Even assuming, arguendo, that the court had the discretion to waive the procedural requirements of CPLR 5241 (e), we nevertheless agree with the SCU that the court lacked authority to assess attorney’s fees against it (see generally Matter of Lynda A.H. v Diane T.O., 243 AD2d 24, 27-28 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 811 [1998]). “Because Family Court is a court of limited jurisdiction, it cannot exercise powers beyond those granted to it by statute” (Matter of Howard v Janowski, 226 AD2d 1087, 1087 [1996]), Family Ct Act § 580-313 (b) provides that the court “may not assess fees, costs, or expenses against the obligee or the support enforcement agency of either the initiating or the responding state, except as provided by other law.” Because the SCU is a support enforcement agency within the meaning of that statute (see § 580-101 [20]; Social Services Law § 111-h), the only basis for an award of attorney’s fees was the “other law” provision in section 580-313 (b). The court purported to rely on CPLR 5241 (e) as the necessary “other law,” but that section does not authorize an award of attorney’s fees. We reject the contention of Baker that he was entitled to an award of attorney’s fees pursuant to 22 NYCRR 130-1.1. The SCU’s clerical errors do not constitute the requisite frivolous conduct within the meaning of section 130-1.1 to warrant such an award. Thus, because there is no “other law” authorizing the award of attorney’s fees against the SCU in this case, we modify the order by denying that part of Baker’s application seeking an award of attorney’s fees. Present — Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Genesee County (Adams, J.), entered July 23, 2001, which, inter alia, terminated respondent’s parental rights. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Respondent father appeals from an order of disposition that, upon a finding of permanent neglect, terminated his parental rights with respect to his two children, transferred their guardianship and custody to petitioner, and freed them for adoption. Contrary to respondent’s contention, Family Court’s finding of permanent neglect is supported by clear and convincing evidence establishing that, despite diligent efforts by petitioner to encourage and strengthen the parental relationship, respondent failed substantially and continuously or repeatedly to plan for the future of the children for a period of more than one year following their placement with petitioner, although physically and financially able to do so (see Social Services Law § 384-b [7] [a]; Matter of Susan C., 299 AD2d 943, 944 [2002]; Matter of Angie M.P., 291 AD2d 932 [2002], Iv denied 98 NY2d 602 [2002]; Matter of Kerensa D. [appeal No. 2], 278 AD2d 878 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 707 [2001]; see generally Matter of Star Leslie W., 63 NY2d 136, 142-143 [1984]). Contrary to respondent’s further contention, the court did not abuse its discretion in declining to enter a suspended judgment (see Matter of Jason J., 283 AD2d 982 [2001]; Matter of Matthew H., 274 AD2d 975 [2000]). “The court’s focus at the dispositional hearing is the best interests of the child . . . [and] [t]he court’s assessment that respondent was not likely to change his behavior is entitled to great deference” (Matter of Philip D., 266 AD2d 909, 909 [1999]; see Susan C., 299 AD2d at 944; Jason J., 283 AD2d 982 [2001]). Present—Pine, J.P., Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Siracuse, J.), entered March 6, 2003, which, inter alia, granted the cross motions of defendants Ogden Telephone Company and Rochester Gas and Electric Corporation for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against them. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced this common-law negligence and Labor Law action seeking damages for injuries sustained by Johnathon Scott (plaintiff) when the ladder on which he was standing slipped, and he fell to the ground. At the time of the accident, plaintiff was attaching electrical cable to a utility pole jointly owned by defendants Ogden Telephone Company (Ogden) and Rochester Gas and Electric Corporation (RG&E). The ladder was placed against the utility pole but was not tied off at the top. The cable was owned by defendant Gateway Commons Development Corporation (Gateway), which hired defendant Crystal Construction Corporation (Crystal) to construct a car wash on its property. Crystal entered into a subcontract with plaintiffs employer for the electrical work. Supreme Court properly granted the cross motions of Ogden and RG&E for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against them. Plaintiffs conceded that the common-law negligence cause of action and Labor Law § 200 claim should be dismissed, and we conclude that the court properly dismissed the remaining claims against Ogden and RG&E, asserting the violation of Labor Law § 240 (1) and § 241 (6). The Labor Law § 240 (1) claim was properly dismissed because Ogden and RG&E “are not ‘owners’ of the . . . cable line being repaired or altered by plaintiff at the time of the accident . . . and did not otherwise act in the capacity of an owner” (Fuller v Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., 213 AD2d 986, 986-987 [1995], lv denied 86 NY2d 708 [1995]; see Bonghi v New York Tel. Co. [appeal No. 2], 277 AD2d 893 [2000], lv dismissed 96 NY2d 791 [2001]; Girty v Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., 262 AD2d 1012 [1999]; Ray v Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., 256 AD2d 1070 [1998]). The same analysis applies to the Labor Law § 241 (6) claim against Ogden and RG&E (see generally Gordon v Eastern Ry. Supply, 82 NY2d 555, 559-560 [1993]). With respect to Gateway and Crystal (collectively, defendants), we conclude that the court properly denied plaintiffs’ motion for partial summary judgment on liability on the Labor Law § 240 (1) claim. Contrary to plaintiffs’ contention, a triable issue of fact exists concerning the applicability of the recalcitrant worker defense. We reject plaintiffs’ contention that defendants were precluded from relying upon that defense in opposition to plaintiffs’ motion based on their failure to plead that defense in their answers. “[A]n unpleaded affirmative defense may be invoked to defeat a motion for summary judgment” (Preferred Capital v PBK, Inc., 309 AD2d 1168, 1168 [2003]). On the merits, the recalcitrant worker defense “requires a showing that the injured worker refused to use the safety devices that were provided by the owner or employer” (Gordon v Eastern Ry. Supply, 82 NY2d 555, 563 [1993]; see Hagins v State of New York, 81 NY2d 921, 922-923 [1993]; Salotti v Wellco, Inc., 273 AD2d 862 [2000]). In this case, plaintiff testified that his supervisor set up the ladder and that plaintiff made sure that the ladder was tied off when he used it for the first time, but that his coworker must have untied the ladder before plaintiff used it at the time of the accident. However, according to the deposition testimony of plaintiffs supervisor and coworker and the reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom, plaintiff set up the ladder but did not use the tie-off cord that was located next to the ladder, and plaintiff had refused to tie off ladders on previous occasions. Thus, we conclude that defendants thereby raised an issue of fact whether plaintiff deliberately refused to tie off the ladder at the time of his accident (see Kulp v Gannett Co. [appeal No. 1], 259 AD2d 969 [1999]; cf. Kaffke v New York State Elec. & Gas Corp., 257 AD2d 840, 841 [1999]). Present-Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment (denominated order) of Supreme Court, Lewis County (McGuire, J.), entered June 13, 2002, which annulled a determination finding that petitioner violated Public Health Law § 1399-cc (2) by selling tobacco products to a minor. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously vacated, the determination is annulled on the law without costs and the petition is granted. Memorandum: Petitioner commenced this proceeding seeking to annul the determination that he sold tobacco products to a person under the age of 18 in violation of Public Health Law § 1399-cc (2). Respondent, New York State Department of Health (DOH), appeals from a judgment annulling the determination as arbitrary and capricious. We conclude that Supreme Court should have transferred the proceeding to this Court pursuant to CPLR 7804 (g). Although the court may dispose of “such other objections [in point of law] as could terminate the proceeding” (CPLR 7804 [g]), an “objection in point of law” is one raised either by respondent in the answer or by petitioner in response to “new matter contained in the answer” (7804 [f]). As this Court previously noted in Matter of Donofrio v City of Rochester (144 AD2d 1027, 1028 [1988], lv denied 73 NY2d 708 [1989], quoting McLaughlin, Practice Commentaries, McKinney’s Cons Laws of NY, Book 7B, CPLR 7804:7), “ ‘[t]he apparént purpose of [subdivision (f) of CPLR 7804 referring to objections in point of law] is to permit a motion under any ground specified in CPLR 3211.’ ” Because the petition herein raises a substantial evidence issue and the issue found determinative by the court was not an objection “that could have terminated the proceeding within the meaning of CPLR 7804 (g), . . . Supreme Court should have transferred the entire proceeding to the Appellate Division” (Matter of Town of Cortlandt v New York State Bd. of Real Prop. Servs., 288 AD2d 388, 389; see Matter of Al Turi Landfill v New York State Dept. of Envtl. Conservation, 289 AD2d 231 [2001], affd 98 NY2d 758 [2002]). We “consider the matter de novo, however, as if it had been properly transferred to us” (Matter of Hosmer v New York State Off. of Children & Family Servs., 289 AD2d 1042, 1042 [2001]; see Al Turi Landfill, 289 AD2d at 231). We conclude that the determination is not supported by substantial evidence and therefore must be annulled. “Hearsay evidence can be the basis of an administrative determination” and, if sufficiently relevant and probative, may alone constitute substantial evidence (Matter of Gray v Adduci, 73 NY2d 741, 742 [1988]; see People ex rel. Vega v Smith, 66 NY2d 130, 139 [1985]). In this case, the DOH presented the testimony of the investigator who observed the sale of cigarettes to a “student aide” who was employed by the DOH. When asked how the aide’s age was verified, the investigator stated that, in order to be hired, the aides were required to present documentary evidence verifying their age. The investigator did not testify that he, personally, verified the aide’s age. The DOH refused to present the documentary evidence allegedly provided by the aide, nor did the DOH present any testimony from the aide. Under the circumstances, “including the total lack of corroborative evidence,” the determination that petitioner violated Public Health Law § 1399-cc (2) is not supported by substantial evidence (Matter of Alegre Deli v New York State Liq. Auth., 298 AD2d 581, 582 [2002]; cf. Matter of Abdelrahman v New York State Liq. Auth., 209 AD2d 405 [1994]). We therefore vacate the judgment, annul the determination and grant the petition. Present—Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Michalek, J.), entered August 2, 2002, which denied the application of claimant for leave to serve a late notice of claim. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Claimant, a 17-year-old high school student, injured her knee while participating in a high school track meet on May 4, 2000. By application dated February 19, 2002, claimant sought leave to serve a late notice of claim on respondents for that injury pursuant to General Municipal Law § 50-e (5). Supreme Court properly exercised its discretion in denying the application. It is well settled that key factors for the court to consider in determining an application for leave to serve a late notice of claim are whether the claimant has demonstrated a reasonable excuse for the delay, whether the municipality acquired actual knowledge of the essential facts constituting the claim within 90 days of its accrual or within a reasonable time thereafter, and whether the delay would substantially prejudice the municipality in maintaining a defense on the merits (see Williams v City of Niagara Falls, 244 AD2d 1006 [1997]). Here, all three of those factors weigh against granting the application. With respect to claimant’s failure to offer a reasonable excuse for the delay, we note that “neither infancy alone . . . nor ignorance of the law . . . provides a sufficient excuse for failure to [serve] a timely notice of claim” (Harris v City of New York, 297 AD2d 473, 473 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 503 [2002]). Contrary to the further contention of claimant, she failed to establish that respondents “acquired actual knowledge of the essential facts constituting the claim” within 90 days of her injury or within a reasonable time thereafter (General Municipal Law § 50-e [5]). The proposed notice of claim alleges that claimant was injured upon landing a long jump due to an insufficient amount of sand in the long jump landing pit, but respondents were not made aware of that allegation concerning the insufficient amount of sand until service of the instant application, approximately 21 months after the injury. Thus, although it is undisputed that respondents’ employees had knowledge that claimant sustained an injury inasmuch as respondents’ track coaches were present at the time of the injury, respondents did not acquire knowledge of the “essential facts constituting the claim” until approximately 21 months later (§ 50-e [5]; see Matter of Brown v County of Westchester, 293 AD2d 748, 749 [2002]; Matter of Ertel v Town of Amherst, 267 AD2d 1024 [1999]; Matter of Morrison v New York City Health & Hosps. Corp., 244 AD2d 487, 488 [1997]; cf. Bazer v Town of Walworth, 277 AD2d 994 [2000]). In addition, respondents established that they were “substantially prejudiced” by the delay (§ 50-e [5]). Because of the lapse of time and subsequent routine maintenance of the landing pit, respondents were deprived of any opportunity to investigate the quantity of sand in the landing pit at the time of claimant’s injury (see Harris, 297 AD2d at 474; Morrison, 244 AD2d at 488). Present—Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from that part of a judgment of the Court of Claims (NeMoyer, J.), entered June 17, 2002, that did not award claimant consequential damages as a result of defendant’s condemnation of claimant’s property. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Claimant, the owner of a large shopping plaza, commenced this action against defendant, State of New York (State), seeking direct and consequential damages for the State’s condemnation of two small strips of property, comprising .183 acre, in order to make improvements to the intersection adjoining the plaza. Claimant appeals from a judgment awarding it direct damages only for the taking, in the principal sum of $76,667. Claimant contends that the Court of Claims also should have awarded it consequential damages, in the principal sum of $417,800, for diminution in the utility and value of a certain self-delineated “outparcel” comprising less than one acre of the 26-acre plaza. In a condemnation case, the court’s award should be upheld where it is within the range of expert testimony or otherwise supported by the evidence and adequately explained by the court (see Madowitz v State of New York, 288 AD2d 442, 443 [2001]; Estate of Dresner v State of New York, 262 AD2d 274, 275 [1999]). Here, the court’s refusal to award consequential damages is supported by the State’s appraisal and other evidence establishing that neither the plaza as a whole nor the “outparcel” was rendered less commercially viable as a result of the de minimis taking (see J.W. Mays, Inc. v State of New York, 300 AD2d 545, 547 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 511 [2003]). We agree with the court that the proof in support of claimant’s request for consequential damages was speculative or otherwise insufficient (see id. at 546-547; Estate of Haynes v County of Monroe, 278 AD2d 823, 824-825 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 712 [2001]; Matter of County of Nassau [Knightsbridge Co.], 144 AD2d 364, 364-365 [1988]). We have considered claimant’s remaining contention and conclude that it is without merit. Present— Pine, J.R, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Bergin, J.), entered September 17, 2002, which denied third-party defendant’s motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the third-party complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by granting the motion of third-party defendant in part and dismissing the third-party complaint insofar as it alleges that plaintiff sustained a grave injury within the meaning of Workers’ Compensation Law § 11 based on permanent and severe facial disfigurement and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff, an employee of third-party defendant, Flower City Printing, Inc. (Flower City), sustained scalp and facial lacerations when her hair became caught in a drill press machine. Supreme Court properly denied that part of Flower City’s motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the third-party complaint insofar as it alleges that plaintiff sustained a grave injury based on an acquired injury to the brain resulting in permanent total disability (see Workers’ Compensation Law § 11). Flower City failed to meet its initial burden on the motion with respect to that part of the third-party complaint (cf. Sergeant v Murphy Family Trust, 292 AD2d 761, 762 [2002]). We further conclude, however, that the court erred in denying that part of Flower City’s motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the third-party complaint insofar as it alleges that plaintiff sustained a grave injury based on permanent and severe facial disfigurement, and thus we modify the order accordingly. Photographs of plaintiff show that her scar is only slightly lighter than her skin tone and follows her hair line. Thus, Flower City established as a matter of law that plaintiffs facial scarring does not constitute a grave injury within the meaning of Workers’ Compensation Law § 11, and third-party plaintiffs failed to raise an issue of fact to defeat that part of the motion (see Sergeant, 292 AD2d at 761-762). Present—Pine, J.P., Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal and cross appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Centra, J.), entered September 17, 2003, which, inter alia, granted that part of plaintiffs’ motion seeldng sanctions for spoliation of evidence by defendants National Rail Passenger Corporation and Consolidated Rail Corporation. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced this action seeking damages for injuries sustained by the infant plaintiffs, Brad Lee Hulett (Hulett) and Richard J. Rowe, Jr. (Rowe), when they were both struck by a train operated by defendant National Rail Passenger Corporation (Amtrak) and Hulett was thrown against an adjacent train operated by defendant Consolidated Rail Corporation (Conrail) (collectively, railroad defendants). Prior to the accident, the infant plaintiffs were riding their bicycles on paths and access roads on property owned by defendant Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation (NiMo) that was adjacent to the railroad tracks. When they reached the railroad tracks, the two boys got off of their bicycles and walked them across the tracks, intending to continue riding on paths on the far side of the tracks. However, Hulett remembered that he had left money on the other side of the tracks, and so the boys left their bicycles near some bushes and attempted to cross the tracks again. At that point, however, a slow-moving Conrail train was headed westbound on one of the tracks, and so the infant plaintiffs stopped on another track to wait for the train to pass. As he walked west about 25 to 30 yards away from Hulett, Rowe heard a horn and saw an eastbound Amtrak train heading toward them. Rowe ran towards Hulett and yelled to warn him, but did not reach him in time. The Amtrak train struck both Rowe and Hulett and propelled Hulett into the adjacent Conrail train. Supreme Court properly granted the motion of NiMo for summary judgment dismissing the amended complaint and cross claims against it. NiMo, as owner of property adjoining the property where the incident occurred, did not owe any duty of care to plaintiffs. Generally, “an owner or occupier of abutting property owes no duty to warn or protect others from a defective or dangerous condition on neighboring property unless the owner of the abutting property causes or contributes to that condition” (Badou v New Jersey Tr. Rail Operations, 221 AD2d 303, 304 [1995]). The cases cited by plaintiffs in opposition to NiMo’s motion are distinguishable. In both Scurti v City of New York (40 NY2d 433 [1976]) and Leone v City of Utica (66 AD2d 463, 465-467 [1979], affd 49 NY2d 811 [1980]), the defendants had erected playgrounds on the property at issue. In this case, by contrast, NiMo did not erect anything that would encourage children to enter its property. In fact, it had affirmatively attempted to keep children off the property. The court also properly granted that part of the cross motion of the railroad defendants for summary judgment dismissing the second cause of action, which asserts that the railroad defendants were negligent for failing to prevent access to their property. General Obligations Law § 9-103 (1) (a) provides that “an owner, lessee or occupant of premises . . . owes no duty to keep the premises safe for entry or use by others for . . . bicycle riding . . . or to give warning of any hazardous condition or use of or structure or activity on such premises to persons entering for such purposes.” The statute applies when “(1) the plaintiff is engaged in one of the activities identified in section 9-103 and (2) the plaintiff is recreating on land suitable for that activity” (Bragg v Genesee County Agric. Socy., 84 NY2d 544, 551-552 [1994]). Plaintiffs first contend that the statute does not apply because the infant plaintiffs were not actually riding their bicycles at the time of the accident. We conclude, however, that, under the circumstances of this case, the activity that the infant plaintiffs were engaged in at the time they were injured, i.e., walking across the tracks, was “sufficiently related” to their bicycle riding that the court properly concluded that they were engaged in a covered activity at the time of the accident (Sega v State of New York, 60 NY2d 183, 193 [1983], rearg denied 61 NY2d 670 [1983]). We also reject plaintiffs’ contention that the property of the railroad defendants was not suitable for bicycle riding. “Whether a parcel of land is suitable and the immunity available is a question of statutory interpretation, and is, therefore, a question of law for the Court” (Bragg, 84 NY2d at 552; see Moscato v Frontier Distrib., 254 AD2d 802, 803 [1998], lv denied 92 NY2d 817 [1998]). In determining whether property is suitable for the covered activity, the court must examine whether it is a “type of property which is not only physically conducive to the particular activity or sport but is also a type which would be appropriate for public use in pursuing the activity as recreation” (Iannotti v Consolidated Rail Corp., 74 NY2d 39, 45 [1989]; see Albright v Metz, 88 NY2d 656, 662 [1996]). In this case, plaintiffs themselves alleged in their amended verified complaint that the property was “widely used as biking trails.” The infant plaintiffs admitted that they had ridden their bicycles on the railroad defendants’ property on a prior occasion, and had seen other people riding bicycles on the property as well. Based on that evidence of past recreational use, the court properly concluded that the property is suitable for bicycle riding (see Albright, 88 NY2d at 662; Iannotti, 74 NY2d at 46-47; Moscato, 254 AD2d at 803; Obenauer v Broome County Beaver Lake Cottagers Assn., 170 AD2d 739, 741 [1991]). The court also properly denied that part of the cross motion of the railroad defendants for summary judgment dismissing the third cause of action, which asserts that the railroad defendants were negligent in failing to observe the infant plaintiffs and/or to properly warn them that the trains were approaching. That cause of action “is not premised upon any condition on the property . . . [and] is instead based on the allegedly improper conduct of the [Railroad] defendants’ employee [s] in operating the train[s],” and thus General Obligations Law § 9-103 is not applicable to that cause of action (Lee v Long Island R.R., 204 AD2d 280, 282 [1994]). Although the railroad defendants submitted evidence establishing that the horn on the Amtrak train sounded, they failed to submit any evidence establishing that the bell on the Amtrak train also sounded. With respect to that part of plaintiffs’ motion seeking sanctions for the railroad defendants’ spoliation of evidence, the court properly determined that the railroad defendants spoliated evidence by failing to preserve dispatcher’s records and Pulse Data and Barco cartridges from the Conrail trains, and audio tapes (which contained missing and inaudible portions). Contrary to the contention of the railroad defendants, their failure to preserve the Pulse Data and Barco cartridges from the Conrail trains was not pursuant to normal business practices and thus the court properly sanctioned the railroad defendants for discarding them (cf. Raymond v State of New York, 294 AD2d 854, 855 [2002]; Conderman v Rochester Gas & Elec. Corp., 262 AD2d 1068, 1070 [1999]). Contrary to the contentions of both plaintiffs and the railroad defendants, the court did not abuse its discretion in determining that the proper sanctions for the railroad defendants’ spoliation of evidence are a missing evidence charge and preclusion of the railroad defendants from using the audible portions of the audio tapes at trial. Contrary to plaintiffs’ contention, the court did not abuse its discretion in granting the railroad defendants’ motion for reconsideration with respect to the spoliation of other evidence, made after the court issued its decision but prior to issuance of an order thereon. By its original decision, the court determined that the railroad defendants were guilty of spoliation of evidence with respect to a Pulse Data cartridge that was removed from the Amtrak train. Although the cartridge was preserved, the railroad defendants had maintained that it was blank. By their motion for reconsideration, the railroad defendants presented new evidence that the Pulse Data cartridge actually had readable data on it. The railroad defendants explained that they had only recently retained an expert in anticipation of trial to explain why the cartridge was blank, and upon his examination of the cartridge, he discovered that it in fact had data on it. The expert further explained that the reason a prior railroad employee had said that the cartridge was blank was that the employee used a faulty reading machine. Thus, the railroad defendants established that they did not lose or destroy the Pulse Data cartridge from the Amtrak train, and the court properly reconsidered its prior decision and allowed the railroad defendants to use the readable data from that cartridge at trial. “A court has the inherent power, sua sponte or on motion of a party, to reconsider and vacate its prior decision before issuing an order thereon” (Scritchfield v Perry, 245 AD2d 1054, 1054 [1997]; see Burns v Haines Equip., 284 AD2d 922 [2001]). Because an order was not yet issued, the requirements of CPLR 2221 with respect to motions affecting a prior order are not applicable (see Vinciguerra v Jameson, 153 AD2d 452, 454 [1990]; Levinger v General Motors Corp., 122 AD2d 419, 420 [1986]). We have considered the parties’ remaining contentions and conclude that they are without merit. Present — Pine, J.P., Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
Appeals and cross appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Centra, J.), entered September 18, 2002, which, inter alia, granted the motion of defendant Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation for summary judgment dismissing the amended complaint and cross claims against it. It is hereby ordered that said appeal by defendant Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed (see CPLR 5511; Town of Massena v Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., 45 NY2d 482, 488 [1978]; Matter of Brown v Starkweather, 197 AD2d 840, 841 [1993], lv denied 82 NY2d 653 [1993]) and the order is affirmed without costs. Same memorandum as in Hulett v Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. (1 AD3d 999 [2003]). Present — Pine, J.P, Hurlbutt, Kehoe, Lawton and Hayes, JJ.
CPLR article 78 proceeding transferred to this Court by an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Siwek, J), entered March 21, 2003, to review a determination of respondent which, after a hearing, revoked petitioner’s license as an owner/driver of harness racing horses. It is hereby ordered that the determination be and the same hereby is unanimously confirmed without costs and the petition is dismissed. Memorandum: In this CPLR article 78 proceeding, petitioner challenges respondent’s determination that he violated 9 NYCRR 4102.2, 4119.7 (a) (3), 4119.9 (a), 4119.10, and 4120.6 (a) (1) and (c), by possessing drugs, unlabeled vials, syringes, and needles with the intention of administering drugs to his horses on a day that they were scheduled to race. Contrary to the contention of petitioner, substantial evidence supports respondent’s determination that petitioner attempted to violate respondent’s drug rules (see 9 NYCRR 4102.2). We reject the further contention of petitioner that the penalty of revocation of his license is “so disproportionate to the offense as to be shocking to one’s sense of fairness” (Matter of Pell v Board of Educ. of Union Free School Dist. No. 1 of Towns of Scarsdale & Mamaroneck, Westchester County, 34 NY2d 222, 237 [1974]; see Matter of DeBonis v Corbisiero, 155 AD2d 299, 302 [1989], lv denied 75 NY2d 709 [1990], cert denied 496 US 938 [1990]; see generally Matter of Harp v New York City Police Dept., 96 NY2d 892, 894 [2001]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ, Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Glownia, J.), entered September 6, 2002, which, inter alia, denied the motion of defendant Hector’s Hardware & Paint Co., Inc. for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed with costs. Memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced this action to recover for injuries sustained by plaintiff Juan Torres in an accident involving a table saw. The complaint asserts causes of action sounding in strict products liability, negligence, and breach of express and implied warranties. Supreme Court properly denied the motion of Hector’s Hardware & Paint Co., Inc. (defendant), the retail seller of the saw, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it. Defendant did not meet its burden of establishing its entitlement to judgment as a matter of law on the issue whether the saw was unreasonably dangerous for its intended use as a result of an inadequate blade guard (see generally Voss v Black & Decker Mfg. Co., 59 NY2d 102, 108-109 [1983]; Robinson v Reed-Prentice Div. of Package Mach. Co., 49 NY2d 471, 478-479 [1980]). In any event, plaintiffs raised a triable question of fact with respect to that issue (see Ganter v Makita U.S.A., 291 AD2d 847, 847-848 [2002]; Chien Hoang v ICM Corp., 285 AD2d 971, 972-973 [2001]; Sanchez v Otto Martin Maschinenbau GmbH & Co., 281 AD2d 284, 285 [2001]). We further conclude that there is a triable issue of fact concerning whether defendant breached its duty to warn (see Ganter, 291 AD2d at 848; Harrigan v Super Prods. Corp., 237 AD2d 882, 882-883 [1997]; Smith v Minster Mach. Co., 233 AD2d 892, 894 [1996]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Major, J.), entered July 11, 2002, that denied in part the cross motion of defendant Foxfire North, Inc. seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed with costs. Memorandum: Plaintiffs, owners of residential property adjoining a golf course owned and operated by defendant Foxfire North, Inc. (Foxfire) commenced this action seeking damages and a permanent injunction prohibiting Foxfire from using the fifth hole of the golf course. Plaintiffs allege that errant golf shots from the fifth tee have regularly damaged their residence and automobiles and struck members of their family and their guests. Supreme Court properly denied that part of Foxfire’s cross motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the nuisance cause of action. Foxfire failed to meet its burden of establishing that the nuisance cause of action has no merit; indeed, Foxfire’s own submissions in support of the cross motion raise issues of fact requiring a trial (see CPLR 3212 [b]; cf. Nussbaum v Lacopo, 27 NY2d 311, 316 [1970]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Major, J.), entered August 28, 2002, that denied in part defendants’ motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Supreme Court properly denied that part of defendants’ motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the claim of plaintiff that she sustained a serious injury under the significant limitation of use of a body function or system category of Insurance Law § 5102 (d). Plaintiff was allegedly injured in a motor vehicle accident when defendant George H. Crowell, an employee of defendant City of Syracuse Water Department, rear-ended her vehicle with a backhoe. In support of the motion, defendants submitted the affirmation of their attorney, which lacks evidentiary value (see Trieger v Kinsella, 309 AD2d 1223 [2003]); the deposition and General Municipal Law § 50-h hearing testimony of plaintiff, which fails to establish that she did not sustain a serious injury (see Dumont v Peterson Trust, 307 AD2d 709, 710 [2003]); unsworn medical records and reports; and a letter from the physician who conducted the independent medical exam (IME) of plaintiff. Even assuming, arguendo, that the unsworn medical reports and records were submitted to defendants by plaintiffs attorney and are therefore admissible (see Cook v Franz, 309 AD2d 1234 [2003]; Dumont, 307 AD2d at 710), we conclude that those records fail to establish that plaintiff did not sustain a significant limitation of use of a body function. The MRI report of the cervical spine indicates the presence of a protruding disc at C3-4 and bulging annuli at C4-5, C5-6 and C6-7, all of which either abut or displace the respective nerve roots. Although defendants failed to submit the IME report itself in support of their motion, the cover letter indicates that 30% of the injury to the lumbar spine is causally related to the accident that is the subject of this lawsuit. The letter further indicates that the examining physician could not state that the injury to the cervical spine predated the accident in question. Thus, defendants failed to establish their entitlement to judgment as a matter of law with respect to plaintiff’s significant limitation of use of a body function or system claim. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Oneida County (Ringrose, J.), entered June 4, 2002, which granted in part the motion of third-party defendant and the cross motion of defendant on counterclaim/third-party plaintiff to strike defendant’s counterclaims. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed with costs. Memorandum: This action was commenced by Lakewood Construction Co., Inc. (Lakewood), seeking damages for breach of a construction contract pursuant to which Lakewood was to renovate a fire- and water-damaged residence owned by defendant, Martin Brody. Brody interposed two counterclaims against Lakewood, for breach of contract and negligence, seeking damages for defective performance of the work. In response, Lakewood impleaded its flooring subcontractor, Oneida Floor Co., Inc. (Oneida), seeking common-law indemnification. Brody appeals from four separate orders, the first of which granted a motion and cross motion to strike Brody’s counterclaims insofar as they relate to the allegedly defective installation of the laundry room floor, on the basis of Brody’s, “failure to comply with the [prior] Order of the Court permitting an inspection of the Brody residence” (see CPLR 3126 [3]). The remaining three orders variously granted in part and denied in part the parties’ motion and cross motions for summary judgment. Supreme Court did not abuse its discretion in striking the counterclaims in part as a sanction for Brody’s willful refusal to permit an inspection of the laundry room floor, as directed in the prior order of discovery (see CPLR 3126 [3]; see generally Kihl v Pfeffer, 94 NY2d 118, 122 [1999]; Leone v Esposito, 299 AD2d 930 [2002], lv dismissed 99 NY2d 611 [2003]; Blake v Chawla, 299 AD2d 437, 440 [2002]). The court properly granted that part of Lakewood’s motion for summary judgment dismissing Brody’s affirmative defenses/ counterclaims to the extent that they allege that Lakewood should have uncovered and rectified any alleged defects in the plywood subflooring. By all accounts, once Lakewood had removed the damaged finished flooring, it observed an apparently sound and undamaged stratum of poured gypcrete several inches thick. The allegedly water-damaged plywood subflooring was beneath that gypcrete. The contract neither expressed nor implied that the flooring work would include an inspection and possible replacement of the plywood subflooring. Moreover, the contract did not call for removal of the layer of gypcrete, whether for inspection of the plywood subflooring or otherwise. Nor, contrary to Brody’s contention on appeal, did the contract call for a demolition and complete reconstruction of the in-floor heating system. Further, Lakewood established that, under the circumstances of this case, neither industry standards nor common sense required Lakewood to inspect the plywood subflooring for possible damage. The need to rip up the evidently sound gypcrete in order to inspect the plywood subflooring from above could not have been apparent to Lakewood, nor could it reasonably be deemed to have been a necessary part of the job of installing new finished flooring. We therefore affirm the order in appeal No. 3. Beyond that, however, we conclude that the court erred in granting, with but one exception pertaining to the allegedly defective installation of limestone flooring in a “limited section” of the living room in which the limestone tiles “may have failed to adhere properly,” the cross motion of Lakewood for partial summary judgment on that part of the complaint seeking to recover compensation for its flooring work. On the record before us, we conclude that the court erred in determining as a matter of law that, with the exception of that “limited section” of the flooring work, the flooring work was in all respects performed in a workmanlike manner. Having admittedly walked off the job before its completion as a result of customer dissatisfaction, Lakewood bore a heavy burden in demonstrating its entitlement to summary judgment on the complaint and dismissal of Brody’s affirmative defenses/counterclaims alleging poor workmanship by Lakewood and Oneida. Although Lakewood’s cross motion addressed many of Brody’s allegations of poor workmanship, it failed to address all of them. Moreover, even assuming, arguendo, that Lakewood met its initial burden on the cross motion, we conclude that the bill of particulars, depositions, and affidavit of Brody raised triable issues of fact with regard to the adequacy of the floor installations in general and various specified defects in particular. We therefore modify the order in appeal No. 2 by denying in its entirety Lakewood’s cross motion for partial summary judgment on the complaint. With regard to the order in appeal No. 4, granting in part Oneida’s cross motion for summary judgment dismissing the amended third-party complaint (except insofar as it relates to the flooring work in the aforementioned “limited section” of the living room), we deem it appropriate to grant relief to Lakewood, which did not appeal from that order, as a means of effectuating our grant of relief to Brody on his appeal from the order in appeal No. 2 (see generally 511 W. 232nd Owners Corp. v Jennifer Realty Co., 98 NY2d 144, 151 n 3 [2002]; Cover v Cohen, 61 NY2d 261, 277-278 [1984]; Hecht v City of New York, 60 NY2d 57, 62 [1983]), in order to “avoid a multiplicity of new motions” (J & A Vending v J.A.M. Vending, 303 AD2d 370, 374 [2003]), and to avoid an injustice to Lakewood (cf. Matter of Miller v DeBuono, 90 NY2d 783, 788 n [1997]; Cover, 61 NY2d at 277-278; Ferguson v Ozog, 288 AD2d 833, 834 [2001]). “Although [Lakewood] did not appeal from the order, we are of the view that because the liability of [Lakewood] and [Oneida] . . . under [the contract and subcontract] is inseparable, this is one of those cases where relief to a nonappealing party is appropriate” (Beesimer v Albany Ave./Rte. 9 Realty, 216 AD2d 853, 855 [1995], citing Hecht, 60 NY2d at 62; see Matter of McGoey v Black, 100 AD2d 635, 637 [1984]). We therefore modify the order in appeal No. 4 by denying in its entirety Oneida’s cross motion and reinstating in its entirety the amended third-party complaint. There are triable issues of fact with regard to whether Oneida installed the floors in a workmanlike manner, particularly with regard to whether the alleged deficiencies in the flooring work extended beyond the aforementioned “limited section” of the living room. Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Oneida County (Ringrose, J.), entered November 6, 2002, which granted in part the cross motion of plaintiff for partial summary judgment on the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by denying in its entirety plaintiffs cross motion for partial summary judgment on the complaint and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Same memorandum as in Lakewood Constr. Co. v Brody ([appeal No. 1] 1 AD3d 1007 [2003]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Oneida County (Ringrose, J.), entered November 7, 2002, which granted in part plaintiffs motion for summary judgment and dismissed, in part defendant’s affirmative defenses/counterclaims. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed with costs. Same memorandum as in Lakewood Constr. Co. v Brody ([appeal No. 1] 1 AD 3d 1007 [2003]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Oneida County (Ringrose, J.), entered November 14, 2002, which granted in part the cross motion of third-party defendant for summary judgment dismissing the amended third-party complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by denying in its entirety third-party defendant’s cross motion and reinstating in its entirety the amended third-party complaint and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Same memorandum as in Lakewood Constr. Co. ([appeal No. 1] 1 AD3d 1007 [2003]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Erie County (Townsend, J.), entered March 7, 2002, which dismissed the petition insofar as it sought an upward modification of child support. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Family Court properly dismissed the petition in appeal No. 1 insofar as it sought an upward modification of child support. Petitioner’s “proof failed to establish that the child’s needs were not being met (see, Matter of Brescia v Fitts, 56 NY2d 132, 141 [1982]) or that an unanticipated and unreasonable change in circumstances had occurred (see, Boden v Boden, 42 NY2d 210, 213 [1977])” (Kinsella v Kinsella, 206 AD2d 889, 889-890 .[1994]). We have considered petitioner’s remaining contentions in appeal No. 1 and conclude that they are without merit. We agree with petitioner, however, that the court erred in dismissing the petition in appeal No. 2 seeking enforcement of the Hearing Examiner’s order, filed when petitioner’s objections to the Hearing Examiner’s order were pending. Contrary to the court’s determination, that petition was not premature. Rather, pending the court’s ruling on the objections, the Hearing Examiner’s order was “in full force and effect” (Family Ct Act § 439 [e]), and petitioner was thus entitled to seek enforcement of that order (see § 453 [a]). The record contains no proof to support the contention of respondent that appeal No. 2 has been rendered moot by his compliance with the Hearing Examiner’s order. We therefore reverse the order in appeal No. 2 and reinstate the petition therein, and we remit the matter to Family Court, Erie County, for further proceedings on the petition. Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Erie County (Townsend, J.), entered April 25, 2002, which dismissed the petition seeking enforcement of an order of the Hearing Examiner. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, the petition is reinstated, and the matter is remitted to Family Court, Erie County, for further proceedings on the petition. Same memorandum as in Matter of Alexander v Conley (1 AD3d 1011 [2003]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment (denominated order) of Supreme Court, Cayuga County (Corning, J.), entered October 21, 2002, which dismissed the petition seeking a writ of habeas corpus. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Supreme Court properly dismissed the petition seeking a writ of habeas corpus. We agree with petitioner that he properly commenced this special proceeding by filing the notice of petition and petition with the clerk of the court (see CPLR 304; Matter of Grant v Senkowski, 95 NY2d 605, 608-610 [2001]), and thus the court erred in determining that the proceeding was not properly commenced because petitioner failed to serve respondents and the Attorney General with the order to show cause issued thereafter by the court. The court directed that the order to show cause, petition and supporting affidavit be served on respondents and the Attorney General by regular mail. Petitioner’s failure to serve those documents as directed in the order to show cause, however, deprived the court of personal jurisdiction over the parties, and “this fatal jurisdictional defect requires dismissal of the proceeding” (Matter of Bottom v Murray, 278 AD2d 817, 817 [2000]; see CPLR 3211 [a] [8]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Brunetti, J.), entered May 3, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree (Penal Law § 220.16 [1]) and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fifth degree (§ 220.06 [5]). Contrary to defendant’s contention, the evidence is legally sufficient to establish defendant’s complicity in the possession of cocaine (see People v Miley, 306 AD2d 164, 165 [2003]; People v Maynard, 294 AD2d 866 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 699 [2002]; People v Rodriguez, 259 AD2d 571 [1999]). Moreover, the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see Miley, 306 AD2d at 165; Maynard, 294 AD2d at 866; see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). We reject the contention of defendant that he was deprived of effective assistance of counsel. The evidence, the law, and the circumstances of this case, viewed in totality and as of the time of the representation, establish that defendant received meaningful representation (see generally People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 147 [1981]; People v Yelle, 303 AD2d 1043, 1044 [2003]). The “claimed deficiencies in counsel’s performance do not undercut” that conclusion (People v Benevento, 91 NY2d 708, 714 [1998]; see People v Ralston, 303 AD2d 1014, 1015 [2003], Iv denied 100 NY2d 565 [2003]; People v Hines, 300 AD2d 1036, 1036-1037 [2002], Iv denied 99 NY2d 615 [2003], cert denied — US —, 124 S Ct 211 [2003]). The sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Cayuga County Court (Fandrich, J.), entered March 19, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of burglary in the second degree (four counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of four counts of burglary in the second degree (Penal Law § 140.25 [2]). We reject the contention of defendant that he is entitled to specific performance of the plea agreement. Defendant does not contend that he detrimentally relied upon the original sentencing promise, and he was afforded the opportunity to withdraw his plea after County Court set forth its reasons for not imposing the agreed-upon sentence (see People v Schultz, 73 NY2d 757, 758 [1988]; People v Jones, 287 AD2d 741, 742 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 706 [2002]; People v Rooks, 262 AD2d 1073 [1999], lv denied 94 NY2d 828 [1999]; People v Miller, 221 AD2d 1002 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 1022 [1996]). The sentence is neither unduly harsh nor severe. Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Seneca County (VanStrydonck, J.), entered September 17, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of assault in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of assault in the second degree (Penal Law § 120.05 [7]) and sentencing him to a determinate term of imprisonment of five years. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the People, we conclude that it is legally sufficient to support the conviction (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). The evidence at trial establishes that defendant, an inmate at Five Points Correctional Facility, intentionally caused physical injury to the victim, who sustained a laceration over his right eyebrow and a fractured nose. Defendant’s intent to cause physical injury to the victim may be inferred from photos that were admitted in evidence showing the nature and extent of the victim’s injuries (see People v Stevens, 76 NY2d 833, 836 [1990]). We also conclude that defendant received effective assistance of counsel (see generally People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 147 [1981]). Counsel filed the appropriate pretrial omnibus motion, conducted a thorough voir dire, adequately outlined defendant’s case in his opening statement and argued at one point that the court interpreter was not accurately interpreting the victim’s testimony. Further, counsel appropriately cross-examined witnesses and made timely objections throughout the course of the trial. Finally, after assessing how the trial was going, counsel advised defendant on the second day of trial to plead guilty, having secured a sentence promise of a three-year determinate term of imprisonment from Supreme Court. Thus, viewing the evidence, the law and the circumstances of this ease, in totality and as of the time of the representation, we conclude that defendant received meaningful representation (see id.). Present— Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Monroe County Court (Marks, J.), entered November 19, 1998, which denied defendant’s motion to set aside the sentence pursuant to CPL 440.20. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: County Court properly denied the motion of defendant pursuant to CPL 440.20 to set aside the sentence of an indeterminate term of imprisonment of 12 years to life imposed upon his conviction of attempted robbery in the second degree (Penal Law §§ 110.00, 160.10 [2] [b]). That sentence is the authorized for a persistent violent felony offender convicted of a class D felony (§ 70.08 [3] [c]), but not for a persistent felony offender (§ 70.10 [2]). The record supports the determination of the court that it misspoke in adjudicating defendant a persistent felony offender (§ 70.10) rather than a persistent violent felony offender (§ 70.08). The court properly exercised its inherent power to correct that error by directing that the certificate of conviction and related documents be amended to reflect defendant’s adjudication as a persistent violent felony offender (see People v Williams, 87 NY2d 1014, 1015 [1996], rearg denied 89 NY2d 861 [1996]; People v Wright, 56 NY2d 613, 614 [1982]; People v Minaya, 54 NY2d 360, 364 [1981], cert denied 455 US 1024 [1982]). The correction “was ministerial in nature and fully comported with the expectations of the court, the prosecutor, and the defendant at the time the plea was originally entered and sentence imposed” (People v Monereau, 181 AD2d 918, 919 [1992], lv denied 79 NY2d 1052 [1992]; see People v Horace, 231 AD2d 948 [1996]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Oswego County Court (Hafner, Jr., J.), entered September 29, 2000, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of sexual abuse in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him, upon his plea of guilty, of sexual abuse in the first degree (Penal Law § 130.65 [1]) and sentencing him to a determinate term of imprisonment of three years. We reject the contentions of defendant that County Court erred in failing to provide him an opportunity to withdraw his plea and in imposing an enhanced sentence upon its determination that defendant violated a condition of his postplea release when he was arrested prior to sentencing. Here, “defendant’s agreement to the no-arrest term as a condition of the plea bargain and the postplea release from custody was unequivocal and the sentencing court did not abuse its discretion in imposing the enhanced sentence” (People v Outley, 80 NY2d 702, 714 [1993]). The court conducted a sufficient inquiry to establish that there was a legitimate basis for the arrest and “afforded defendant an adequate opportunity to explain the circumstances of the arrest” (id.). The sentence is neither unduly harsh nor severe. Defendant further contends that he was denied effective assistance of counsel. To the extent that his contention survives his guilty plea (see People v Sheppard, 306 AD2d 841 [2003]; People v Burke, 256 AD2d 1244 [1998], lv denied 93 NY2d 851 [1999]), we conclude that it is lacking in merit. “In the context of a guilty plea, a defendant has been afforded meaningful representation when he . . . receives an advantageous plea and nothing in the record casts doubt on the apparent effectiveness of counsel” (People v Ford, 86 NY2d 397, 404 [1995]; see People v Davis, 302 AD2d 973, 974 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 537 [2003]). Here, defendant pleaded guilty to one count of sexual abuse in the first degree in satisfaction of a 15-count indictment that charged him with various offenses, including two counts of rape in the first degree (Penal Law § 130.35 [1]), in connection with five victims. As part of the favorable plea agreement, defense counsel negotiated a sentence that included youthful offender treatment and probation supervision. Contrary to defendant’s contention, “nothing in the record casts doubt on the apparent effectiveness of counsel” (Ford, 86 NY2d at 404). Present—Pigott, Jr., RJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Wisner, J.), entered December 17, 1996, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, murder in the second degree (two counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him of murder in the second degree (two counts) (Penal Law § 125.25 [1], [3]), attempted murder in the first degree (§§ 110.00, 125.27 [1] [a] [vii]), and robbery in the first degree (§ 160.15). Defendant was sentenced to concurrent and consecutive indeterminate terms of incarceration aggregating 37x/2 years to life. Defendant has failed to preserve for our review his contention that reversal is required based on Supreme Court’s failure to respond promptly to a jury note (see People v Johnson, 289 AD2d 1008, 1009 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 756 [2002]; People v Schojan, 272 AD2d 932, 934 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 871 [2000]; see generally People v Starling, 85 NY2d 509, 516 [1995]; People v DeRosario, 81 NY2d 801, 803 [1993]). In any event, there is no merit to that contention, inasmuch as the court complied in all material respects with the procedures set forth in CPL 310.30 and in People v O’Rama (78 NY2d 270, 277-278 [1991]; see Schojan, 272 AD2d at 934). Moreover, defendant was not prejudiced by any delay in the court’s response to the jury note. The requested document had not been admitted in evidence and thus could not have been provided to the jury irrespective of the timing of the court’s response. The decedent’s statement to a prosecution witness was properly admitted in evidence under the present sense impression exception to the hearsay rule (see People v Vasquez, 88 NY2d 561, 574-575 [1996]; People v Buie, 86 NY2d 501, 503 [1995]; People v Brown, 80 NY2d 729, 732-733 [1993]). There was sufficient corroboration, by means of independent proof, of both the contemporaneity and reliability of the out-of-court declaration (see Vasquez, 88 NY2d at 575; Brown, 80 NY2d at 734, 737). The court did not err in allowing the surviving shooting victim to identify defendant in court. That identification was not shown to have been tainted by any unnecessarily suggestive police-arranged identification procedure (see People v Chipp, 75 NY2d 327, 336 [1990], cert denied 498 US 833 [1990]). In any event, the court properly determined that the surviving victim had an independent basis for his in-court identification of defendant as the shooter (see People v Spirles, 294 AD2d 810, 811 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 713, 99 NY2d 540 [2002]; People v Grimes, 289 AD2d 1072 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 755 [2002]; see generally People v Adams, 53 NY2d 241, 251 [1981]). Moreover, the victim’s viewing of the videotape depicting defendant, which was initially accomplished without the involvement of police, was not an identification procedure requiring notice pursuant to CPL 710.30 (see generally People v Gee, 99 NY2d 158,162 [2002]; People v Herner, 85 NY2d 877, 879 [1995]). The verdict is not against the weight of the evidence on the issue of defendant’s identity as the shooter (see People v Rutlen, 289 AD2d 1061, 1062 [2001], lv denied 98 NY2d 713; People v Epps, 284 AD2d 996, 996-997 [2001]; see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Defendant’s motion challenging the make-up of the entire jury panel was properly denied without a hearing (see People v McFadden, 244 AD2d 887, 889 [1997]; see also People v Davidson, 251 AD2d 1036 [1998]). Defendant’s motion papers failed to set forth sufficient facts substantiating the contention that a substantial and identifiable segment of the community was not included in the jury pool as a result of intentional discrimination or a systematic exclusion of that group (see People v Williams, 256 AD2d 661, 663 [1998], lv denied 93 NY2d 981 [1999]; Davidson, 251 AD2d 1036 [1998]; McFadden, 244 AD2d at 889, lv denied 97 NY2d 757 [2002]; see generally People v Guzman, 60 NY2d 403, 410-411 [1983], cert denied 466 US 951 [1984]). The sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Wayne County Court (Kehoe, J.), entered April 23, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and assault in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him, upon his plea of guilty, of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree (Penal Law § 220.39 [1]) and assault in the second degree (§ 120.05 [3]). Defendant failed to move to withdraw his plea or to vacate the judgment of conviction and thus failed to preserve for our review his contention that the plea allocution is factually insufficient (see People v Lopez, 71 NY2d 662, 665 [1988]). We conclude that the plea allocution does not “cast[ ] significant doubt upon the defendant’s guilt or otherwise call[ ] into question the voluntariness of the plea” and thus defendant’s contention does not fall within the rare case exception to the preservation doctrine (id. at 666). Defendant’s further contentions concerning the legal and facial insufficiency of the arrest warrant are nonjurisdictional in nature and thus were forfeited by operation of law upon entry of the guilty plea (see People v Keizer, 100 NY2d 114, 122-123 [2003]; People v Hansen, 95 NY2d 227, 230-231 [2000]). Although the contention of defendant that he was denied his constitutional right to a speedy trial survives the guilty plea, defendant raises that contention for the first time on appeal and therefore failed to preserve it for our review (see People v Weeks, 272 AD2d 983 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 872 [2000]; see also People v Johnson, 305 AD2d 1097 [2003]; People v Blackshear, 275 AD2d 966, 967 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 756, 916 [2001]). In any event, that contention is without merit. We reject the contention of defendant that County Court erred in denying his request for new counsel based on defense counsel’s alleged conflict of interest. We conclude that the court properly explored the potential conflict of interest and determined that defendant failed to establish that “ ‘the conduct of his defense was in fact affected by the operation of the conflict of interest, or that the conflict operated on the representation’ ” (People v Abar, 99 NY2d 406, 409 [2003]). The sentence is neither unduly harsh or severe. We have reviewed defendant’s remaining contention and conclude that it is without merit. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Monroe County Court (Marks, J.), entered March 6, 2001, which denied the motion of defendant pursuant to CPL 440.10 to vacate his judgment of conviction. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from an order denying his pro se motion pursuant to CPL article 440 seeking to vacate the judgment convicting him of two counts each of burglary in the first degree (Penal Law § 140.30 [1], [4]) and attempted robbery in the first degree (§§ 110.00, 160.15 [2], [4]). We previously affirmed that judgment of conviction (People v Singleton, 286 AD2d 877 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 658 [2001]). In support of his motion, defendant submitted the transcript of the plea proceeding of one of his alleged accomplices. Defendant contended that the transcript constituted newly discovered evidence and that the verdict would have been more favorable to him had the transcript been received at trial (see CPL 440.10 [1] [g]); that he received ineffective assistance of counsel (see 440.10 [1] [h]); and that the People committed a Brady violation by failing to turn over the transcript to defendant (see 440.10 [1] [i]). We conclude that County Court properly denied the motion. The transcript does not constitute newly discovered evidence because it could have been produced at trial by defendant with due diligence (see 440.10 [1] [g]; People v Ulrich, 265 AD2d 884, 886 [1999], lv dismissed 94 NY2d 799 [1999]; People v Beckett, 162 AD2d 1000, 1001 [1990], lv denied 76 NY2d 852 [1990]). Defendant was aware that the accomplice had pleaded guilty and, indeed, defendant had obtained the transcript of another accomplice’s plea proceeding prior to trial. We agree with the court that defendant did not support his contention concerning ineffective assistance of counsel with sufficient “nonrecord facts” (People v Satterfield, 66 NY2d 796, 799 [1985]). Furthermore, although we agree with defendant that the transcript of the accomplice’s plea proceeding was exculpatory, we disagree that there was a Brady violation. The People are not required to turn over evidence where, as here, defendant “knew of, or should reasonably have known of, the evidence and its exculpatory nature” (People v Doshi, 93 NY2d 499, 506 [1999]; see People v Quinones, 228 AD2d 796, 798 [1996]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ, Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Steuben County Court (Bradstreet, J), entered November 20, 2000, convicting defendant after a jury trial of criminal contempt in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of criminal contempt in the first degree (Penal Law § 215.51 [c]). Defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that he was denied a fair trial due to prejudicial media coverage, having failed to ask the prospective jurors whether they were aware of the case as a result of media coverage or to move for a change of venue (see generally People v Parker, 60 NY2d 714, 715 [1983]). In any event, that contention lacks merit. County Court asked the prospective jurors whether they had prior knowledge of the case from the media or any other source and none gave an affirmative response. We reject the further contention of defendant that he was denied effective assistance of counsel (see generally People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 147 [1981]). Defendant’s contention is based on the failure of defense counsel to move pursuant to CPL 330.30 to set aside the verdict, thereby allegedly failing to preserve for our review defendant’s contention that the conviction is not supported by legally sufficient evidence. As a preliminary matter, we note that a motion pursuant to CPL 330.30 does not preserve for our review a contention that is not otherwise preserved (see People v Schultz, 266 AD2d 919 [1999], lv denied 94 NY2d 906 [2000]). In any event, the evidence, which included the testimony of the victim and two eyewitnesses as well as defendant’s testimony admitting the underlying facts, is legally sufficient to support the conviction (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). The sentence is neither unduly harsh nor severe. Present—Wisner, J.P, Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Mark, J.), entered January 13, 1999, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, murder in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of murder in the second degree (Penal Law § 125.25 [2]) and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree (§ 265.02 [4]). We reject defendant’s contention that the verdict is against the weight of the evidence (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Defendant relied primarily on a justification defense. Although there was evidence presented that defendant was aware that the victim, on occasion, would carry a gun, there was no evidence presented that the victim was armed on the night he was murdered. There was also evidence presented that the victim argued incessantly with defendant over a cassette tape, and that the victim used profanity and pointed his finger at defendant; however, there was additional evidence presented that the verbal barrage never escalated into physical violence. While defendant’s wife testified that the victim made a death threat to defendant, she further testified that defendant could not have heard it. Where, as here, witness credibility is of paramount importance, we must give £<[g]reat deference ... to the fact-finder’s opportunity to view the witnesses, hear the testimony and observe demeanor” (id.). Determining credibility is primarily a task within the province of the jury (see People v Gruttola, 43 NY2d 116 [1977]), and its judgment should not be lightly disturbed. Although a different result would not have been unreasonable based on the evidence presented, upon “ ‘weighting] the relative probative force of [the] conflicting testimony and the relative strength of conflicting inferences that may be drawn from the testimony,’ ” we conclude that the jury’s verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (Bleakley, 69 NY2d at 495). We also reject defendant’s contention that Supreme Court’s failure to charge the lesser included offense of criminally negligent homicide requires reversal. “Since the court submitted the lesser included offense of second-degree manslaughter but the jury convicted defendant of second-degree murder, the court’s refusal to charge the more remote lesser included offense of criminally negligent homicide cannot be a basis for reversal” (People v Mannix, 302 AD2d 297, 298 [2003]; see People v Jones, 272 AD2d 930, 932 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 891 [2000]; People v Scott, 203 AD2d 911 [1994], lv denied 83 NY2d 971 [1994]). We similarly reject the contention of defendant that the court should have given an “initial aggressor” charge. Penal Law § 35.15 (1) provides that “[a] person may . . . use physical force upon another person when and to the extent he reasonably believes such to be necessary to defend himself or a third person from what he reasonably believes to be the use or imminent use of unlawful physical force by such other person, unless ...(b) [t]he actor was the initial aggressor; except that in such case his use of physical force is nevertheless justifiable if he has withdrawn from the encounter and effectively communicated such withdrawal to such other person but the latter persists in continuing the incident . . . .” That section is inapplicable here for two reasons. First, defendant does not contend that he was the initial aggressor and attempted to withdraw. Second, Penal Law § 35.15 (1) applies only to the use of non-deadly physical force. The use of deadly physical force is governed by Penal Law § 35.15 (2), which provides that “[a] person may not use deadly physical force upon another person under circumstances specified in subdivision one . . . (a) . . . if he knows that he can with complete safety as to himself and others avoid the necessity of so doing by retreating; except that he is under no duty to retreat if he is . . . in his dwelling and not the initial aggressor . . . .” Thus, when deadly physical force is used, the analysis of whether defendant was the “initial aggressor” is relevant only if defendant was in his dwelling at the time of the use of deadly physical force. Here, the shooting took place outside of 113 Lewis Street, not within defendant’s home, and thus the initial aggressor provision of Penal Law § 35.15 (2) (a) (i) does not apply. Present—Wisner, J.P., Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Mark, J.), entered September 7, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, burglary in the third degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him following a jury trial of burglary in the third degree (Penal Law § 140.20), criminal mischief in the fourth degree (§ 145.00) and petit larceny (§ 155.25). The People established that photographs made from the surveillance videotape were accurate depictions of the images on the videotape and thus, contrary to defendant’s contention, the photographs extracted from the videotape were properly admitted in evidence (see People v Patterson, 93 NY2d 80, 84 [1999]; People v Carelock, 278 AD2d 851 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 757 [2001]). Defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that the photographic array was unduly suggestive (see CPL 470.05 [2]), and we decline to exercise our power to review that contention as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). Because “there [was] some basis for concluding that the [police officer was] more likely to correctly identify the defendant from the photograph[s] than [was] the jury,” Supreme Court properly permitted the officer to identify defendant from the photographs (People v Morgan, 214 AD2d 809, 810 [1995], lv denied 86 NY2d 783 [1995]; see People v Sampson, 289 AD2d 1022, 1023 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 733 [2002]). The court also properly permitted testimony concerning three uncharged burglaries as identification evidence. Defendant’s modus operandi “was sufficiently unique to tend to establish [defendant’s] identity,” thus rendering applicable the identity exception to the general rule concerning the inadmissibility of evidence of uncharged crimes (People v Beam, 57 NY2d 241, 250 [1982]). Finally, we conclude that defendant received effective assistance of counsel (see generally People v Baldi, 54 NY2d 137, 147 [1981]). Present—Wisner, J.E, Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Oneida County Court (Donalty, J.), entered November 16, 2001, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of burglary in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: On appeal from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of burglary in the second degree (Penal Law § 140.25 [2]), defendant contends that he was denied effective assistance of counsel. That contention does not survive his guilty plea inasmuch as “[t]here is no showing that the plea bargaining process was infected by any alleged ineffective assistance or that defendant entered the plea because of his attorney [’s] poor performance” (People v Burke, 256 AD2d 1244, 1244 [1998], lv denied 93 NY2d 851 [1999]). We further conclude that County Court did not abuse its discretion in denying defendant’s request for an adjournment of sentencing for the purpose of retaining a new attorney (see People v Kelly, 219 AD2d 676 [1995], lv denied 87 NY2d 847 [1995]; People v De Gaspard, 170 AD2d 835, 838 [1991], lv denied 77 NY2d 994 [1991]). Present—Wisner, J.P, Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Monroe County Court (Bellini, J.), entered November 5, 2000, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, grand larceny in the third degree (three counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum; Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting her after a jury trial of three counts of grand larceny in the third degree (Penal Law § 155.35) and one count of scheme to defraud in the first degree (§ 190.65 [1] [b]) premised on false promise (§ 155.05 [2] [d]). Defendant was a director, board member, and secretary of New York Amazons corporation (Amazons) and was a signatory on the corporate bank account. The Amazons purported to be a premier high school-aged girls’ basketball program with additional educational and community service benefits. Program participants, however, alleged that defendant and codefendant Ivette Ganatsios were running a fraudulent enterprise because they collected fees but failed to deliver on the promises made with respect to the program. Contrary to the contention of defendant, we conclude that “the inference of wrongful intent logically flowed from the proven facts” and that there was a valid line of reasoning that could lead a rational trier of fact, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the People, to conclude that defendant committed the crimes charged (People v Norman, 85 NY2d 609, 620 [1995]; see People v Bastian, 294 AD2d 882, 883 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 694 [2002]). Although defendant contends that the evidence does not establish that she made any promises or representations to any of the complainants or that she stole money from the complainants or exercised dominion and control over their money, a rational trier of fact could conclude based on her conduct, as testified to by numerous witnesses, that defendant was liable as an accessory for the crimes (see People v Rossey, 89 NY2d 970, 972 [1997]; People v Allah, 71 NY2d 830, 832 [1988]; People v Valderrama, 285 AD2d 902, 903 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 659 [2001]; People v Davis, 260 AD2d 726, 729 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 968 [1999]). We see no basis to disturb the jury’s resolution of credibility issues (see generally People v Van Stuyvesant, 297 AD2d 559 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 586 [2003]), or determination of defendant’s criminal intent. “Proof of intent in false promise cases is rarely direct and, therefore, must be inferred from all of the facts and circumstances” (People v Ruscito, 206 AD2d 841, 841-842 [1994], lv denied 84 NY2d 872 [1994], citing People v Luongo, 47 NY2d 418, 428 [1979]; see People v Wilson, 201 AD2d 944 [1994], lv denied 83 NY2d 878 [1994]). Here, there is ample evidence from which the jury could reasonably infer defendant’s intent to defraud the Amazon program participants at the time of the transactions (see People v Laws, 271 AD2d 380 [2000]; People v Coloney, 98 AD2d 969 [1983]). We also reject defendant’s contention that the evidence establishes that each of the grand larceny complainants received something of value for the money that they paid, and thus the transactions at issue constitute instances of civil wrong only (see generally People v Ryan, 41 NY2d 634, 639-640 [1977]). The jury could rationally conclude from the testimony of the complainants that they did not receive anything of value in consideration of the money that they paid. Moreover, the evidence that defendant participated in a common scheme to defraud program participants and used Amazon funds to pay personal debts takes this case out of the realm of mere civil wrongs (see People v Hamilton, 155 AD2d 978, 979 [1989]; Coloney, 98 AD2d 969 [1983]; cf. People v Brigham, 261 AD2d 43, 51 [1999], appeal dismissed 94 NY2d 900 [2000]; People v Rogers, 192 AD2d 1092, 1093 [1993]). Defendant failed to preserve for our review her contention that the verdict finding her guilty of grand larceny and scheme to defraud but acquitting her of two counts of petit larceny is repugnant (see People v Alfaro, 66 NY2d 985, 987 [1985]; People v Grice, 300 AD2d 1005, 1006 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 654 [2003]). In any event, because the crimes charged involved separate transactions, acquittal on the petit larceny charges does not necessarily negate any element of the grand larceny charges (see People v Torrence, 305 AD2d 1042, 1044 [2003]). To the extent that defendant contends that her conviction of scheme to defraud is inconsistent with her acquittals on the petit larceny charges because the count of the indictment charging scheme to defraud named five sets of complainants and the People failed to prove the two petit larcenies implicit therein, we note that the People were under no burden to prove the scheme to defraud with respect to each complainant named in the indictment (see People v Charles, 61 NY2d 321, 326-327 [1984]; People v Rooney, 57 NY2d 822, 823 [1982]; see also Penal Law § 190.65 [1] [b]; [2]). Present—Wisner, J.P., Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Oneida County Court (Donalty, J.), entered July 26, 2000, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, murder in the second degree (two counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of two counts of murder in the second degree (Penal Law § 125.25 [2], [3]) and two counts of robbery in the second degree (§ 160.10 [1], [2] [a]) in connection with the robbery and death of a 73-year-old man. We reject defendant’s contention that the evidence is legally insufficient to support the conviction because the medical examiner was unable to determine a cause of death as a result of the extensive decomposition of the body. The victim’s family members and physician testified that, although the victim had been treated for the early stages of Alzheimer’s disease, he had otherwise been in good health. The victim was seen leaving a bar with the female codefendant early in the day, and defendant and the co-defendant were found by police in possession of the victim’s car several hours after the victim was last seen. The victim’s body was found in a remote location partially unclothed, corroborating defendant’s statement that, while the codefendant engaged the victim in sexual activity, defendant struck him in the head as part of a robbery plan. Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the People (see People u Thompson, 72 NY2d 410, 413 [1988], rearg denied 73 NY2d 870 [1989]), we conclude that the victim’s “death ... by a criminal agency [was] sufficiently proved by circumstantial evidence” (People v Jennings, 40 AD2d 357, 362 [1973], affd 33 NY2d 880 [1973]). Contrary to the further contention of defendant, the evidence sufficiently corroborates his statements (see CPL 60.50; People v Lewandowski, 255 AD2d 902, 902-903 [1998]). County Court properly determined that oral and written statements made by defendant on August 23 and 25, 1999, were sufficiently attenuated from statements made by him on August 20 and 21, 1999, which were suppressed by the court (see generally People v Stith, 69 NY2d 313, 317-318). We therefore reject defendant’s contention that the later statements should also have been suppressed. By failing to object to the testimony of two police witnesses who testified with respect to a conversation they overheard between defendant and the codefendant, defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that the admission of that testimony violated his constitutional right of confrontation (see CPL 470.05 [2]), and we decline to exercise our power to review that contention as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). Defendant’s sentence is neither unduly harsh nor severe. We have reviewed defendant’s remaining contentions and conclude that they are without merit. Present—Wisner, J.E, Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Oneida County (Donalty, J.), entered January 30, 2003, which, after a hearing, granted the motion of defendant seeking to suppress oral and written statements made by him. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law, the motion is denied, and the matter is remitted to Supreme Court, Oneida County, for further proceedings on the indictment. Memorandum: Supreme Court erred in granting the motion of defendant seeking to suppress oral and written statements made by him. In determining whether a defendant was in custody prior to receiving his Miranda warnings, the “test is not what the defendant thought, but rather what a reasonable man, innocent of any crime, would have thought had he been in the defendant’s position” (People v Yukl, 25 NY2d 585, 589 [1969], rearg denied 26 NY2d 845 [1970], cert denied 400 US 851 [1970]; see People v Jacobs, 298 AD2d 954, 955 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 559 [2002]; People v Scott, 288 AD2d 846, 847 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 761 [2002]; People v Sanchez, 280 AD2d 891 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 806 [2001]). The evidence at the suppression hearing establishes that defendant voluntarily permitted the arresting officer to enter his home. There is nothing in the record to support the conclusion that a reasonable person would have believed that he was not free to leave until after the arresting officer refused to allow defendant to shower before leaving for the police station. It was only at that point that defendant was “physically deprived of his freedom of action in any significant way” (People v Rodney P., 21 NY2d 1, 9 [1967]; see People v Johnson, 91 AD2d 327, 328 [1983], affd 61 NY2d 932 [1984]). “Because the initial statements [were] not the product of pr e-Miranda custodial interrogation, the post-Miranda detailed confession given by defendant cannot be considered the fruit of the poisonous tree” (People v Williams, 283 AD2d 998, 999 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 926 [2001], quoting People v Flecha, 195 AD2d 1052, 1053 [1993]). We therefore reverse the order, deny the motion to suppress, and remit the matter to Supreme Court, Oneida County, for further proceedings on the indictment. Present—Wisner, J.E, Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Monroe County (Sciolino, J.), entered February 2, 2001, which, inter alia, directed that sole custody of the children shall continue with respondent and set forth periods of visitation for petitioner. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by vacating the 6th and 17th ordering paragraphs and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Petitioner father appeals from an order denying his petitions, granting respondent mother’s petition in part and modifying the existing visitation schedule with respect to the parties’ children. We agree with petitioner that Family Court erred in ordering that “the children shall be encouraged, but not forced to visit with [him].” Under the circumstances, that direction “ ‘tends unnecessarily to defeat the right of visitation’ ” (Sturm v Lyding, 96 AD2d 731, 731-732 [1983], quoting Mahler v Mahler, 72 AD2d 739, 739 [1979]; see Pincus v Pincus, 138 AD2d 687, 688 [1988]; cf. Matter of Marotta v Fariello, 207 AD2d 450, 451-452 [1994]). We also agree with petitioner that the court erred in restricting him from filing new petitions without leave of the court. “Public policy generally mandates free access to the courts” (Matter of Leopold, 287 AD2d 718, 718 [2001]) and there is no proof that petitioner has abused the judicial process (cf Matter of Shreve v Shreve, 229 AD2d 1005, 1006 [1996]). We thus modify the order by vacating the 6th and 17th ordering paragraphs. Present — Wisner, J.P., Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Steuben County (Furfure, J), entered August 5, 2002, which terminated respondent’s parental rights. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs for reasons stated at Family Court, Steuben County, Furfure, J. Present — Wisner, J.P, Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeals from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Cosgrove, J.), entered October 30, 2002, which, inter alia, denied that part of the cross motion of fourth-party defendant for summary judgment seeking dismissal of plaintiff’s claim pursuant to Labor Law § 241 (6). It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by granting that part of the cross motion of fourth-party defendant seeking dismissal of plaintiffs claim pursuant to Labor Law § 241 (6) to the extent that it is based on the alleged violations of 12 NYCRR 23-8.1 and 23-8.2 and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: We conclude that Supreme Court erred in denying that part of the cross motion of fourth-party defendant seeking dismissal of plaintiff’s claim pursuant to Labor Law § 241 (6) to the extent that it is based on the alleged violations of 12 NYCRR 23-8.1 and 23-8.2. Those regulations apply to the use of equipment not used at the time of plaintiffs injury (see Jacome v State of New York, 266 AD2d 345, 347 [1999]). We therefore modify the order accordingly. We otherwise affirm the order for the reasons stated in the decision at Supreme Court (Cosgrove, J.). Present—Wisner, J.P, Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Sedita, Jr., J.), entered September 16, 2002, that granted plaintiffs application for leave to serve a late notice of claim against defendant Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority. It is hereby ordered that the order insofar as appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs and the application is denied. Memorandum: We agree with defendant Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority (Housing Authority) that Supreme Court abused its discretion in granting plaintiffs application pursuant to General Municipal Law § 50-e (5) for leave to serve a late notice of claim against the Housing Authority. Although courts are vested with broad discretion in determining whether to grant such an application (see Wetzel Servs. Corp. v Town of Amherst, 207 AD2d 965 [1994]), here the court abused that discretion inasmuch as plaintiff failed to establish that the Housing Authority had actual knowledge of the essential facts constituting the claim (see Nationwide Ins. Co. v Village of Alexandria Bay, 299 AD2d 855, 856 [2002]). Plaintiff stated in his supporting affidavit that he was “informed by [his] employer . . . that city police, transit patrolmen and investigators immediately investigated the accident.” That statement alone is insufficient to establish that the Housing Authority had the requisite notice of the essential facts constituting the claim (see Oates v City of Niagara Falls [appeal No. 2], 247 AD2d 829 [1998]; Matter of Dancy v Poughkeepsie Hous. Auth., 220 AD2d 413 [1995]). Present—Wisner, J.P, Hurlbutt, Scudder, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order and judgment (one document) of Supreme Court, Erie County (Dillon, J.), entered May 8, 2002, which granted the motion of defendants Victor N. Farley, public administrator for the estate of Henry P Kopciowski, deceased, and Irene Kopciowski for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against them. It is hereby ordered that the order and judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, the motion is denied and the complaint against defendants Victor N. Farley, public administrator for the estate of Henry P Kopciowski, deceased, and Irene Kopciowski is reinstated. Memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced this action to recover damages for injuries sustained by 15-year-old Katherine M. Woodman (plaintiff) when she was attacked by a dog harbored by defendants Joel Rosier and Tammy Kopciowski on premises owned by Tammy’s parents, defendant Irene Kopciowski and her late husband, Henry P. Kopciowski (decedent). Supreme Court erred in granting the motion of defendants Irene Kopciowski and the public administrator for decedent’s estate for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against them. “A landlord not in possession of the premises is usually not liable for injuries inflicted by an animal owned or harbored by a tenant .... However, if during the term of the leasehold a landlord becomes aware of the fact that his tenant is harboring an animal with vicious propensities, he owes a duty to protect third persons from injury only if he ‘had control of the premises or other capability to remove or confine the animal’ ” (Cronin v Chrosniak, 145 AD2d 905, 905-906 [1988], quoting Strunk v Zoltanski, 62 NY2d 572, 575 [1984]). Upon our review of the record, we conclude that there are triable issues of fact with regard to whether the parents knew or should have known of the dog’s vicious propensities (see Han v F & M Enter. of Corona Corp., 293 AD2d 572, 573 [2002]). Plaintiffs submitted evidence tending to demonstrate that the dog openly and constantly evinced aggressive and vicious propensities during the year prior to the attack and was reputed throughout the neighborhood to be a vicious dog (see Dixon v Frazini, 188 AD2d 1054 [1992]; Cronin, 145 AD2d at 906-907; see also Baisi v Gonzalez, 97 NY2d 694, 695, [2002] revg 286 AD2d 313 [2001]). Plaintiffs also demonstrated that the parents were regular visitors to the premises (see Baisi, 286 AD2d at 314 [Crane, J., dissenting]; Dixon, 188 AD2d 1054 [1992]; Cronin, 145 AD2d at 906). Moreover, decedent’s wife admitted in her deposition testimony that she had been put on notice, “months” before the attack on plaintiff, of plaintiffs alleged tendency to walk back and forth in front of the house with the intent of exciting the dog. She further acknowledged her prior awareness that plaintiffs alleged antics were in fact “very aggravating” to the dog. Indeed, in her testimony she went so far as to say that the dog “naturally” responded to plaintiffs alleged taunting in the manner in which it did, at least to the extent of “runfning] out” and “jump[ing] the fence.” That specific knowledge of a history of antagonism between the dog and the victim of the attack tends to establish at least constructive notice of the dog’s vicious propensities (cf. Carter v Metro N. Assoc., 255 AD2d 251, 252 [1998]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeals from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Makowski, J.), entered May 9, 2002, which, inter alia, denied respondents’ motion to dismiss the CPLR article 78 petition and granted the petition. It is hereby ordered that said appeals be and the same hereby are unanimously dismissed without costs (see CPLR 5701 [b] [1]). Present — Pigott, Jr., EJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeals from a judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County (Makowski, J.), entered September 13, 2002, which granted the CPLR article 78 petition. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, the motion is granted and the petition is dismissed. Memorandum: Petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding to challenge the determination of the Graduate Medical and Dental Education Consortium of Buffalo (GMD) to eliminate its Otolaryngology Residency Training Program (ORTP). Petitioner alleges, inter alia, that the determination was made in violation of lawful procedure under GMD’s bylaws. Supreme Court erred in denying respondents’ respective motion to dismiss and objections in point of law and in granting the petition. The alleged injuries to petitioner’s medical career resulting from the determination to eliminate the ORTP fall outside the zone of interests protected by GMD’s bylaws (see generally Society of Plastics Indus, v County of Suffolk, 77 NY2d 761, 773-774 [1991]; Matter of Brighton Residents Against Violence to Children v MW Props., 304 AD2d 53, 56-57; cf. Gifford v Guilderland Lodge, No. 2480, B.P.O.E., 272 AD2d 721, 723 [2000]). Further, petitioner’s interest in the adherence of GMD to its own bylaws “represents nothing more than a concern for the protection of the general public,” which is insufficient to confer standing on petitioner (Matter of Sheehan v Ambach, 136 AD2d 25, 28 [1988], lv denied 72 NY2d 804 [1988]). We therefore reverse the judgment, grant the motion and dismiss the petition. In view of our decision, we do not address respondents’ remaining contentions. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Glownia, J), entered August 23, 2002, which denied defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff commenced this action seeking damages for injuries to two fingers on his left hand, allegedly arising from a motor vehicle accident in which a vehicle driven by defendant collided with his vehicle. Supreme Court properly denied defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Although defendant met her initial burden on the motion by establishing that plaintiff sustained only a minor or slight limitation of use of those fingers and thus did not a sustain serious injury within the meaning of Insurance Law § 5102 (d) (see Gaddy v Eyler, 79 NY2d 955, 957 [1992]), we conclude that plaintiff raised an issue of fact sufficient to defeat the motion (see generally Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). In opposition to the motion, plaintiff submitted an affidavit of his treating physician, who provided a quantitative assessment of the loss of strength in plaintiffs left hand and who attributed that loss of strength to the injury sustained in the motor vehicle accident (see generally Toure v Avis Rent a Car Sys., 98 NY2d 345, 353 [2002]). The physician further stated that, because the condition had persisted for three years, he believed the loss of strength to be permanent. We therefore conclude that plaintiff raised an issue of fact whether he sustained a permanent consequential limitation of use of a body organ or member or a significant limitation of use of a body function or system (see § 5102 [d]). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order of Supreme Court, Steuben County (Furfure, J.), entered November 13, 2002, that granted plaintiffs’ cross motion seeking partial summary judgment on liability on the cause of action under Labor Law § 240 (1) and dismissal of defendant’s affirmative defenses alleging plaintiffs culpable conduct and assumption of risk. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by denying that part of plaintiffs’ cross motion seeking partial summary judgment on liability on the Labor Law § 240 (1) cause of action and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Defendant, the owner of the property where Patrick O. Holiday (plaintiff) was injured, appeals from that part of an order that granted plaintiffs’ cross motion seeking partial summary judgment on liability on the cause of action under Labor Law § 240 (1) and dismissal of defendant’s affirmative defenses alleging plaintiffs culpable conduct and assumption of risk. We agree with defendant that Supreme Court erred in granting that part of the cross motion seeking partial summary judgment on liability under section 240 (1). There are triable issues of fact concerning whether plaintiff was engaged in an activity protected under the statute at the time of the accident (see Hanvey v Guardian Angels Church of Rochester, 309 AD2d 1200 [2003]; Short v Durez Div.-Hooker Chems. & Plastic Corp., 280 AD2d 972, 972-973 [2001]), more particularly, whether he was engaged in the “cleaning ... of a building” (§ 240 [1]; see generally Stanley v Carrier Corp., 303 AD2d 1022 [2003]; Vasey v Pyramid Co. of Buffalo, 258 AD2d 906, 906-907 [1999]; Roldan v Molyneux, 227 AD2d 240 [1996]), or whether he was merely engaged in “routine cleaning in a nonconstruction, nonrenovation context” (Chavez v Katonah Mgt. Group, 305 AD2d 358, 359 [2003]; see Machado v Triad III Assoc., 274 AD2d 558, 559 [2000], lv denied 96 NY2d 702 [2001]; Williams v Perkins Rests., 245 AD2d 1128 [1997], lv denied 92 NY2d 804, rearg denied 92 NY2d 921 [1998]). We reject the contention of defendant, however, that the court erred in granting that part of the cross motion seeking dismissal of his affirmative defenses (see Bland v Manocherian, 66 NY2d 452, 461 [1985]; Oaks v Pioneer Dev. Co., 294 AD2d 897 [2002]; Colern v State of New York, 170 AD2d 1000, 1001-1002 [1991]). Thus, we modify the order by denying that part of plaintiffs’ cross motion seeking partial summary judgment on liability on the Labor Law § 240 (1) cause of action. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment (denominated order and judgment) of Supreme Court, Erie County (Notaro, J.), entered June 13, 2002, which dismissed the CPLR article 78 petition. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Petitioner commenced this proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 seeking a judgment directing respondent City of Buffalo (City) to pay him supplemental wages and benefits pursuant to General Municipal Law § 207-a (2) or, alternatively, to conduct a hearing on his eligibility for such benefits. In their answer, respondents asserted the statute of limitations as an affirmative defense. Supreme Court properly dismissed the petition as time-barred. The New York State Police and Fire Retirement System granted petitioner a performance of duty disability retirement and, by letter dated June 12, 2001, the City informed petitioner that he was not eligible for supplemental wages and benefits pursuant to General Municipal Law § 207-a (2). On September 4, 2001, petitioner served a demand for such wages and benefits upon the City or, alternatively, for a hearing to determine his eligibility for those wages and benefits. Petitioner thereafter commenced this proceeding on December 24, 2001. Contrary to petitioner’s contention, this proceeding is in the nature of mandamus to review, not mandamus to compel the performance of a statutory duty (see Matter of Dearman v City of White Plains, 237 AD2d 603 [1997]), and the statute of limitations thus began to run on June 12, 2001, the date on which the City’s determination became final and binding on petitioner (see CPLR 217 [1]; Matter of De Milio v Borghard, 55 NY2d 216, 220 [1982]; Matter of Gruosso v County of Nassau, 264 AD2d 396 [1999]). The City’s determination was “formal, explicit, and unequivocal” and was thus final on that date (Nickerson v City of Jamestown, 178 AD2d 1003, 1003 [1991]). Petitioner’s subsequent demand for supplemental wages and benefits or for a hearing was at most a request for reconsideration of the City’s determination and did not toll or revive the statute of limitations (see Matter of Lubin v Board of Educ. of City of N.Y., 60 NY2d 974, 976 [1983], rearg denied 61 NY2d 905, 62 NY2d 803 [1984], cert denied 469 US 823 [1984]). Present—Pigott, Jr., EJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Genesee County (Noonan, J.), entered June 14, 2000, which, inter alia, adjudged respondent a juvenile delinquent upon a finding that he committed acts that, if committed by an adult, would constitute the crimes of sexual abuse in the first degree and sexual abuse in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Family Court adjudicated respondent a juvenile delinquent upon a finding that he committed acts that, if committed by an adult, would constitute the crimes of sexual abuse in the first degree (Penal Law § 130. 65 [1]) and sexual abuse in the second degree (§ 130.60 [2]). Contrary to respondent’s contention, the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to petitioner, is legally sufficient to establish the element of forcible compulsion beyond a reasonable doubt (see § 130.00 [8]; Matter of Rayshon Y., 196 AD2d 771 [1993]). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Makowski, J), entered August 2, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint and denied plaintiffs cross motion seeking leave to amend the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Supreme Court properly granted defendant’s motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint and properly denied plaintiff’s cross motion seeking leave to amend the complaint. Although leave to amend a complaint should be freely given (see CPLR 3025 [b]), where, as here the proposed amendment lacks merit, leave should be denied (see Shellberry v Albright, 281 AD2d 892, 892-893 [2001], lv dismissed in part and denied in part 97 NY2d 650 [2001]). Plaintiff purchased a house from defendant, who was his friend at the time. When he began to remodel the house, plaintiff discovered extensive structural and electrical deficiencies that were not visible before the removal of carpets, ceilings gnd sheet rock. Defendant did not advise plaintiff of any of those defects at the time of the sale. “The mere silence of the seller, without some act or conduct which deceived the purchaser, does not amount to a concealment that is actionable as a fraud” (London v Courduff 141 AD2d 803, 804 [1988], lv dismissed 73 NY2d 809 [1988]). Here, plaintiff concedes that defendant did not make any express representations with respect to the defects that he discovered. Rather, plaintiff contends that defendant made only general comments, such as “it was a great house.” Although a seller may be held liable for active concealment of a hidden defect (see generally 17 E. 80th Realty Corp. v 68th Assoc., 173 AD2d 245, 246 [1991]), defendant established that the defects at issue here were created and concealed prior to his ownership of the house, when defendant’s parents owned the house (cf. Stephens v Sponholz, 251 AD2d 1061 [1998]; George v Lumbrazo, 184 AD2d 1050, 1051 [1992], lv dismissed 81 NY2d 759 [1992], rearg denied 81 NY2d 835 [1993]). Although defendant was living in the house when the renovations resulting in the defects were made, he was a child and a young adult at the time. Thus, defendant established that he neither actively concealed the defects of the house, nor intentionally or negligently failed to disclose those defects to plaintiff, as alleged in plaintiffs proposed amended complaint. Plaintiff failed to raise an issue of fact sufficient to defeat defendant’s motion (see generally Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Kloch, J.), entered January 10, 2003, that denied the motion of defendant for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed with costs. Memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced this action seeking to recover damages for injuries sustained by Lewis J. Abad (plaintiff) while fighting a fire on premises owned by defendant. Plaintiffs seek to impose liability against defendant pursuant to General Municipal Law § 205-a and General Obligations Law § 11-106, both of which are legislative abrogations of the common-law “firefighter’s rule,” which had barred firefighters from recovering in negligence for injuries sustained in the line of duty (see Giuffrida v Citibank Corp., 100 NY2d 72, 79 [2003]; see generally Santangelo v State of New York, 71 NY2d 393, 396-397 [1988]). Supreme Court properly denied defendant’s motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. There are triable issues of fact concerning whether defendant violated the state and local building code provisions specified by plaintiffs, whether defendant was negligent, and whether the requisite causal link exists between such alleged code violations or negligence and plaintiffs injuries (see Giuffrida, 100 NY2d at 82-83; Brennan v New York City Hous. Auth., 302 AD2d 483, 484 [2003]; Baker v Riverhouse Realty Co., 300 AD2d 214 [2002]). Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Erie County (Dillon, J.), entered August 5, 2002, which, inter alia, denied the motion of defendant City of Buffalo for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and cross claims against it. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by granting the motion of defendant City of Buffalo and dismissing the complaint and cross claims against it and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiff commenced this action seeking damages for injuries he sustained when he tripped and fell because of a depression in the street. Approximately two years prior to the accident, defendant East Amherst Plumbing Co., Inc. (East Amherst) made cuts in the pavement of the street at issue in order to work on the sewer. When its work was completed, East Amherst filled the cuts with a concrete cap, so that the concrete was level with the adjoining blacktop or asphalt. Defendant City of Buffalo (City) was to remove the concrete cap at a later time and replace it with asphalt. After East Amherst completed its work, a City engineer inspected and measured the concrete cap and billed East Amherst for the paving work that the City would subsequently perform. At the time of plaintiffs accident, the City had not yet removed the concrete cap and replaced it with asphalt, and a depression had formed where the concrete cap abutted the asphalt. Supreme Court properly granted the motion of East Amherst for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and cross claim against it. In support of its motion, East Amherst submitted excerpts from the deposition of the City engineer who inspected and measured the concrete cap after East Amherst completed its work. He testified therein that, upon inspecting the work, he had found it acceptable. The engineer also examined a photograph of the accident scene and opined that the concrete cap was in good condition. East Amherst thus met its initial burden of establishing its entitlement to summary judgment dismissing the complaint against it, and neither the City nor plaintiff raised a triable issue of fact whether the defect was caused by any negligence of East Amherst (see generally Zuckerman v City of New York, 49 NY2d 557, 562 [1980]). The court erred, however, in denying the motion of the City for summary judgment dismissing the complaint and cross claims against it. The City met its initial burden by establishing that it did not have prior written notice of the allegedly dangerous condition as required by the City Charter (see Robinson v City of Buffalo, 303 AD2d 1048, 1048-1049 [2003]; Hall v City of Syracuse, 275 AD2d 1022, 1023 [2000]), and plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact whether an exception to the prior written notice requirement applies (see Hall, 275 AD2d at 1023). Although plaintiff contends that the City created the allegedly dangerous condition through an affirmative act of negligence (see generally Amabile v City of Buffalo, 93 NY2d 471, 474 [1999]; Kiernan v Thompson, 73 NY2d 840, 841-842 [1988]), plaintiff in fact submitted the affidavit of an expert who opined that the City’s failure to pave over the area within a reasonable period of time caused and contributed to the defective condition because, over time, the concrete naturally flaked off, chipped, and broke, thereby allowing weather conditions to undermine the asphalt base around the excavation area. Thus, he alleged only “an act of omission [on the part of the City, which] does not constitute affirmative negligence excusing noncompliance with the prior [written] notice requirement” (Agrusa v Town of Liberty, 291 AD2d 620, 621 [2002]; see Lifer v City of Kingston, 295 AD2d 695, 696 [2002]; Gorman v Ravesi, 256 AD2d 1134, 1135 [1998]). We therefore modify the order by granting the motion of the City and dismissing the complaint and cross claims against it. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ, Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Family Court, Genesee County (Noonan, J), entered June 14, 2000, which, inter alia, adjudged respondent a juvenile delinquent upon a finding that he committed acts that, if committed by an adult, would constitute the crime of unlawful possession of a weapon by a person under the age of 16. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: We reject the contention of respondent that Family Court erred in accepting his admission to the petition alleging that he unlawfully possessed a weapon in violation of Penal Law § 265.05. Contrary to the contentions of respondent, the court advised him of his right to a fact-finding hearing, and the allocution of respondent and his mother complied with the requirements of Family Ct Act § 321.3 (1) (see Matter of Eric CC., 298 AD2d 632, 633-634 [2002]; Matter of Ramon P, 295 AD2d 233 [2002]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Erie County Court (D’Amico, J), entered December 1, 2000, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of, inter alia, scheme to defraud in the first degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed (see People v Hidalgo, 91 NY2d 733, 737 [1998]). Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Oswego County Court (Hafner, Jr., J), entered July 30, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, rape in the third degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by reversing that part convicting defendant of sodomy in the third degree under count four of the indictment, vacating the sentence imposed thereon and dismissing that count of the indictment and as modified the judgment is affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon a jury verdict of one count of rape in the third degree (Penal Law § 130.25 [2]) and two counts of sodomy in the third degree (§ 130.40 [2]). County Court sentenced defendant to an indeterminate term of imprisonment of U/s to 4 years for rape, together with a consecutive indeterminate term of U/s to 4 years on one of the sodomy counts, and a concurrent indeterminate term of 1 to 3 years on the other sodomy count. We agree with defendant that the court erred in allowing the People to amend the indictment at trial to allege that defendant committed third degree sodomy by having penis to anus contact with the victim. That amendment changed the theory of the prosecution concerning the manner in which defendant violated Penal Law § 130.40 (2) (see generally People v Thompson, 217 AD2d 929, 930 [1995]). We therefore modify the judgment by reversing that part convicting defendant of sodomy in the third degree under count four of the indictment, vacating the sentence imposed thereon and dismissing that count of the indictment. We reject defendant’s remaining contentions. The court properly denied the motion of defendant to suppress his oral and written statements. With respect to defendant’s oral statements, made during telephone conversations with the victim that were recorded by police, the court applied the correct legal standard in admitting the audiotapes of those conversations (see People v Pike, 254 AD2d 727 [1998]). While the People concede that the victim was acting as an agent of the police when she telephoned defendant, the calls were recorded with the victim’s consent (see id.), and “the victim did not make a threat that would create a substantial risk that defendant might falsely incriminate himself” (People v Stroman, 286 AD2d 974, 975 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 688 [2001]). With respect to defendant’s written statement to police, defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention that the statement must be suppressed as the fruit of the poisonous tree of the telephone conversations between the victim and him (see CPL 470.05 [2]). In any event, given our determination that those telephone conversations were properly admitted in evidence, defendant’s contention lacks merit. Contrary to his further contention, we conclude that defendant was not in custody or coerced in any way into making his statement to police. Defendant was not in handcuffs or otherwise restrained, he voluntarily accompanied the officers to the police station and he was informed that he could leave at any time. We agree with the court that, under the circumstances, a reasonable person in defendant’s position, innocent of any crime, would not have believed that he was in custody (see People v Yukl, 25 NY2d 585, 589 [1969], rearg denied 26 NY2d 845 [1970], cert denied 400 US 851 [1970]; People v Pristell, 204 AD2d 801, 801-802 [1994], lv denied 83 NY2d 970 [1994]). We reject the contention of defendant that the court impermissibly enhanced his sentence based on his refusal to accept a proffered plea bargain. “The imposition of a more severe sentence after trial than that offered to defendant pursuant to a plea offer that he rejected, without more, does not support the contention of defendant that he was penalized for exercising his right to go to trial” (People v Samuels, 269 AD2d 859, 859 [2000], lv denied 94 NY2d 925 [internal quotation marks omitted] [2000]). We further reject defendant’s contention that the sentence is unduly harsh or severe. Defendant’s sentence is within the statutory parameters and the court acted within its discretion in imposing a consecutive sentence when it properly determined that “the offenses were committed through distinct acts,” particularly in light of defendant’s failure to express either remorse or responsibility for the crime (People v Griffin, 305 AD2d 992, 993 [2003], lv denied 100 NY2d 582 [2003]; see People v Scott, 288 AD2d 846, 848 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 761 [2002]). Defendant failed to “demonstrate that [the court] abused its discretion in sentencing him or that extraordinary circumstances exist that would warrant a reduction of the sentence as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice” (People v Phillips, 224 AD2d 1027, 1027 [1996], lv denied 88 NY2d 940 [1996]). Defendant failed to preserve for our review his contentions that his statement to police should have been suppressed, or an adverse inference charge given at trial, based on the failure of police to record defendant’s interview (see CPL 470.05 [2]). Finally, we conclude that the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Oneida County Court (Dwyer, J.), entered December 13, 2000, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law, the motion is granted, the indictment is dismissed, and the matter is remitted to Oneida County Court for proceedings pursuant to CPL 470.45. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him following a jury trial of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree (Penal Law § 220.16 [1]) and criminal possession of a controlled substance in the fourth degree (§ 220.09 [1]). We agree with defendant that County Court erred in denying his motion to dismiss the indictment based on the legal insufficiency of the evidence at trial. The People presented evidence that, while executing a search warrant, police officers discovered a plastic bag containing a rock of crack cocaine the size of a golf ball on the bathroom floor of a trailer. Defendant and another man were in the bathroom when the officers entered the trailer, and the officers did not see either man in actual possession of the cocaine. Rather, the cocaine was discovered after both men were directed by the officers to lie side by side on the bathroom floor, defendant was handcuffed behind his back and pat-searched, and the other man was led out of the bathroom. The presence of defendant in the bathroom where the cocaine was found is insufficient, without more, to establish his possession of the cocaine (see Matter of Dallas L., 183 AD2d 897, 898-899 [1992]). Defendant did not reside in the trailer or exercise dominion and control over any part of it (see People v Butts, 177 AD2d 782, 784 [1991]; People v Ortiz, 126 AD2d 677, 678 [1987], lv denied 70 NY2d 652 [1987]). In addition, the cocaine was discovered in a location equally accessible to at least one other person at the time of the seizure (see Butts, 177 AD2d at 784; People v Harvey, 163 AD2d 532, 532-533 [1990]; People v Harris, 47 AD2d 385, 388 [1975]; cf. People v Dawkins, 136 AD2d 726 [1988]). The evidence is therefore legally insufficient to establish beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant possessed the cocaine (see People v Torres, 45 AD2d 1042 [1974]). In view of our determination, we do not address defendant’s remaining contentions. Present—Pigott, Jr., P.J., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County (Forma, J.), entered July 26, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, murder in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him after a jury trial of murder in the second degree (Penal Law § 125.25 [3]) and two counts of robbery in the first degree (§ 160.15 [1], [2]). The contention of defendant that he was denied a fair trial by Supreme Court’s examination of witnesses and other conduct during trial is not preserved for our review (see People v Manigault, 297 AD2d 754 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 583 [2003]; People v Hanks, 292 AD2d 875 [2002]; People v Hartzog, 263 AD2d 492 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 1019 [1999]; People v Fauntleroy, 258 AD2d 664, 665 [1999], lv denied 93 NY2d 924 [1999]). In any event, the court’s conduct did not deny defendant a fair trial (see Fauntleroy, 258 AD2d at 665). The court’s intervention was appropriate “to clarify the issues and to facilitate the orderly and expeditious progress of the proceedings” (id.; see People v Yut Wai Tom, 53 NY2d 44, 55-58 [1981]). Defendant further contends that there is insufficient circumstantial evidence to support the conviction and that he established the affirmative defense to felony murder by a preponderance of the evidence as a matter of law. We disagree. Although there is no direct evidence of defendant’s intent to commit the robbery, it is well settled that “[i]ntent may be inferred from conduct as well as the surrounding circumstances” (People v Steinberg, 79 NY2d 673, 682 [1992]). Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the People, we conclude that there is a “valid line of reasoning and permissible inferences [that] could lead a rational person to the conclusion reached by the fact finder” (People v Williams, 84 NY2d 925, 926 [1994]; see People v Scavone, 284 AD2d 928, 929 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 942 [2001]; see also People v Alexander, 75 NY2d 979 [1990]), i.e., that defendant knowingly participated in the robbery and shared his accomplices’ intent (see People v Horsey, 304 AD2d 852, 854 [2003]). The jury properly rejected as incredible the defense theory that defendant had no reasonable ground to believe either that one of his accomplices was armed with a deadly weapon or that the accomplice intended to engage in conduct likely to result in serious physical injury or death (see Penal Law § 125.25 [3] [c], [d]; People v Thomas, 298 AD2d 187, 187-188 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 585 [2003]). The court properly denied defendant’s motion for severance because defendant failed to show good cause for severance (see CPL 200.40 [1]; People v Boatman, 147 AD2d 912 [1989]). The defense of defendant did not conflict with that of his codefendant, inasmuch as both denied having the requisite intent to commit the robbery (see People v Reed, 236 AD2d 866 [1997], lv denied 89 NY2d 1099 [1997]). Moreover, defendant failed to show that undue or unfair prejudice would result from the joint trial (see People v Cotton, 237 AD2d 943 [1997], lv denied 90 NY2d 857 [1997]; People v Hamilton, 174 AD2d 633 [1991], lv denied 78 NY2d 966 [1991]), and there was no “ ‘injustice or impairment of substantial rights unseen at the beginning’ ” (People v Cruz, 66 NY2d 61, 69 [1985], revd on other grounds 481 US 186 [1987]). Defendant failed to preserve for our review his contention regarding the circumstantial evidence charge given by the court (see CPL 470.05 [2]), and we decline to exercise our power to review that contention as a matter of discretion in the interest of justice (see 470.15 [6] [a]). The court properly denied defendant’s request for a missing witness charge because defendant failed to show that the witnesses’ testimony would have been favorable to the People (see People v Thomas, 300 AD2d 1034, 1035 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 633 [2003]; see generally People v Gonzalez, 68 NY2d 424, 427 [1986]). Finally, the sentence is neither unduly harsh nor severe. Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
CPLR article 78 proceeding transferred to this Court by an order of Supreme Court, Oneida County (Julian, J.), entered May 2, 2003, to review a determination of respondent after a Tier II hearing. It is hereby ordered that said proceeding be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs as moot (see Matter of Free v Coombe, 234 AD2d 996 [1996]). Present — Pine, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Monroe County Court (Geraci, Jr., J.), entered August 12, 2002, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of rape in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed (see People v Griffin, 239 AD2d 936 [1997]). Present—Pine, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Mark, J.), entered September 11, 2001, convicting defendant after a jury trial of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment entered upon a jury verdict convicting him of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree (Penal Law § 220.39 [1]). Contrary to the contention of defendant, his motion to suppress identification testimony was properly denied without a hearing. “The information presented to the motion court clearly established that the viewing of defendant by the observing officer in this observation sale case was a confirmatory identification for which no Wade hearing was required” (People v Davis, 289 AD2d 134, 135 [2001], lv denied 97 NY2d 753 [2002]). The sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. Present—Pine, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Wayne County Court (Kehoe, J.), entered June 22, 2001, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of attempted forgery in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the case is held, the decision is reserved, and the matter is remitted to Wayne County Court for further proceedings in accordance with the following memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon his plea of guilty of attempted forgery in the second degree (Penal Law §§ 110.00, 170.10). Prior to sentencing, defendant made a pro se motion to withdraw his guilty plea on the ground that he had newly discovered evidence of his innocence. County Court granted a brief adjournment to allow defense counsel, who had not yet seen the newly discovered evidence, to examine the evidence with defendant. After the adjournment, defense counsel described the evidence to the court, but then also argued that it was inadmissible and possibly irrelevant. Although defense counsel had no obligation to support defendant’s motion, he deprived defendant of effective assistance of counsel when he took a position adverse to the motion (see People v Lewis, 286 AD2d 934, 934-935 [2001]; People v Betsch, 286 AD2d 887 [2001]). The court should have assigned new counsel to represent defendant before determining the motion. We therefore hold the case, reserve decision, and remit the matter to Wayne County Court for the assignment of counsel and a de novo determination of defendant’s motion to withdraw the guilty plea (see Lewis, 286 AD2d at 935; Betsch, 286 AD2d 887 [2001]). Present—Pine, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Jefferson County Court (Martusewicz, J.), entered April 30, 2001, convicting defendant upon his plea of guilty of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Contrary to defendant’s contention, County Court properly determined that there was probable cause to support the issuance of the search warrants leading to the arrest of defendant and his subsequent conviction, upon his plea of guilty, of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the second degree (Penal Law § 220.18 [1]). “The sworn statement [s] of a citizen informant attesting to facts directly and personally observed by [her are] sufficient to support the issuance of [the] search warrant[s]” (People v Wilson, 284 AD2d 958, 958 [2001], lv denied 96 NY2d 943 [2001]; see also People v Martinez, 298 AD2d 897, 898 [2002], lv denied 98 NY2d 769 [2002], cert denied — US —, 123 S Ct 1752, [2003] reh denied — US —, 123 S Ct 2266 [2003]). In this case, the attesting witness was familiar with marihuana and personally observed what she believed to be marihuana in the locations to be searched. Thus, her sworn statements established probable cause to believe that a search of those locations “would result in evidence of drug activity” (People v McLaughlin, 269 AD2d 858, 858 [2000], lv denied 95 NY2d 800 [2000]; see Martinez, 298 AD2d at 898). Any misreading of the witness’s statements by the court did not invalidate the warrants because the court’s misreading did not concern the witness’s observations of marihuana. Also contrary to defendant’s contention, the descriptions of the locations to be searched contained in the warrants and the supporting affidavits were “sufficiently definite to enable the searcher to identify” those locations (People v Nieves, 36 NY2d 396, 401 [1975]), and “there is no reasonable probability that the wrong [locations] would be searched” (People v Seybold, 216 AD2d 935, 936 [1995]). Present—Pine, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Wayne County Court (Nesbitt, J.), entered June 11, 2002, convicting defendant after a jury trial of, inter alia, rape in the second degree (three counts). It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed. Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him, after a jury trial, of three counts each of rape in the second degree (Penal Law § 130.30 [1]), sodomy in the second degree (§ 130.45 [1]), and rape in the third degree (§ 130.25 [2]), and one count of sodomy in the third degree (§ 130.40 [2]). Contrary to defendant’s contentions, the conviction is supported by legally sufficient evidence,and the verdict is not against the weight of the evidence (see generally People v Bleakley, 69 NY2d 490, 495 [1987]). Issues concerning the credibility of the complainants and the weight to be accorded their testimony were for the jury to resolve (see People v Barber, 299 AD2d 893, 894 [2002], lv denied 99 NY2d 612 [2003]). . .. County Court properly exercised its discretion in denying defendant’s request for access to the complainants’ counseling records. The court examined the counseling records in camera and determined that the possible impeachment value of the records with respect to the credibility of the complainants did not overcome the confidentiality rights of the complainants with respect to those records (cf. People v Brooks, 199 AD2d 275 [1993], lv denied 82 NY2d 922 [1994]; see generally People v Gissendanner, 48 NY2d 543, 549-550 [1979]). Defendant is not aggrieved by the court’s refusal to give him access to Family Court records concerning one of the complainants because he was acquitted on charges involving that complainant. The sentence is not unduly harsh or severe. We have reviewed defendant’s remaining contentions and conclude that they are without merit. Present—Pine, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Affronti, J.), entered September 19, 2002, convicting defendant upon her plea of guilty of criminal possession of a forged instrument in the second degree. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by vacating the resentence and as modified the judgment is affirmed, and the matter is remitted to Supreme Court, Monroe County, for resentencing in accordance with the following memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting her upon her plea of guilty of criminal possession of a forged instrument in the second degree (Penal Law § 170.25). Defendant pleaded guilty in exchange for an agreed-upon split sentence of six months’ incarceration together with a five-year period of probation. Although she was sentenced on August 27, 2002, Supreme Court allowed defendant to remain free for one week following sentencing, and ordered her to surrender herself to the Monroe County Jail on September 3, 2002, to begin her six-month term of incarceration. However, defendant failed to surrender herself on that date, and a warrant was issued for her arrest. When defendant was brought before the court on the warrant, both she and her counsel told the court that defendant had attempted to surrender herself on September 3 and 4, 2002 but the jail denied her admittance for want of an order of commitment. Although the court stated that it did not “dispute” what either defendant or her counsel related, the court nevertheless sua sponte vacated defendant’s sentence and resentenced defendant to a definite term of incarceration of one year. We agree with defendant that the court’s summary rejection of her plausible, exculpatory explanation for failing to comply with the court’s order to surrender herself to the county jail “deprived defendant of [her] right ... to refute the single, aggravating factor which influenced the court in increasing defendant’s punishment” (People v Banks, 161 AD2d 957, 958 [1990]). We further agree that “[defendant should have been afforded such an opportunity through a summary hearing at a presentence conference . . . or by some other fair means within the discretion of the sentencing court” (id.). We therefore modify the judgment by vacating the resentence, and we remit the matter to Supreme Court, Monroe County, for resentencing before a different justice. Present — Pine, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from that part of an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Centra, J), entered September 26, 2002, that awarded plaintiff $583,698.80 in damages, plus interest and costs, against defendants 81 & 3 of Watertown, Inc., Pasquale D. Cipolla, Mary Ripper, Bella Vista Group, Inc. and Innovative Realty, Inc. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed without costs (see Matter of Laborers Intl. Union of N. Am., Local 210, AFL-CIO v Shevlin-Manning, Inc., 147 AD2d 977 [1989]). Present — Pine, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Centra, J.), entered October 4, 2002, awarding plaintiff judgment against defendants 81 & 3 of Watertown, Inc., Pasquale D. Cipolla, Mary Ripper, Bella Vista Group, Inc. and Innovative Realty, Inc. for a total of $1,149,644.97, including interest and costs. It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by reversing that part against defendant Innovative Realty, Inc. and dismissing the complaint against it and by vacating the award of damages against defendants Mary Ripper and Bella Vista Group, Inc. and as modified the judgment is affirmed without costs, and the matter is remitted to Supreme Court, Onondaga County, for further proceedings in accordance with the following memorandum: 81 & 3 of Watertown, Inc. (81 & 3), Pasquale D. Cipolla, Mary Ripper, Bella Vista Group, Inc. (Bella Vista) and Innovative Realty, Inc. (Innovative) (collectively, defendants) appeal from a judgment entered after a nonjury trial awarding plaintiff, Edgewater Construction Co., Inc. (Edgewater), $583,698.80 in damages for breach of contract and the wrongful diversion of funds held in trust under the Lien Law. This action arises from the construction of a Sam’s Wholesale Club store in Watertown for Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart). With construction of the foundation wall approximately 75% completed, at a cost of over $300,000, it was discovered that a subcontractor had failed to install $619.20 worth of a horizontal wall reinforcement, known as “Dur-o-Wall,” during construction. The omission resulted from the subcontractor installing the Dur-o-Wall on every other course of below-grade masonry block, in accordance with the standard building practice in the area, rather than on every course of below-grade masonry block, as required by the contract specifications. There is no dispute that the lack of additional Dur-o-Wall did not diminish the structural integrity of the foundation. Nevertheless, 81 & 3, which was responsible for the construction of the store for WalMart, required Edgewater, the general contractor, to rebuild the foundation at a cost in excess of $500,000. Edgewater thereafter commenced this action against defendants seeking to recover its rebuilding costs. The first cause of action alleges that 81 & 3 breached its contract with Edgewater by wrongfully directing it to rebuild the foundation. The second cause of action generally alleges that funds held in trust under article 3-A of the Lien Law for payment of the project were wrongfully diverted by defendants. After trial, Supreme Court found that the failure to install the Dur-o-Wall on every course of below-grade masonry block was unintentional and trivial and thus determined that 81 & 3 breached its contract with Edgewater by requiring the foundation to be rebuilt. The court also found that funds held in trust by 81 & 3 under article 3-A of the Lien Law had been wrongfully diverted, and it held each of the defendants responsible for that diversion, granting judgment against them jointly and severally for the entire amount of damages awarded to Edgewater. With respect to the first cause of action, defendants contend that, notwithstanding the trivial nature of the error in construction, the error was intentional on the part of the subcontractor and deliberately overlooked by Edgewater and thus 81 & 3 properly required Edgewater to rectify it. We disagree. The record establishes that the failure to install the additional Dur-oWall “was the result of the oversight and inattention of [Edgewater’s] subcontractor” rather than any “fraudulent . . . or willful” conduct on the part of Edgewater or its subcontractor (Jacob & Youngs v Kent, 230 NY 239, 241 [1921], rearg denied 230 NY 656 [1921]). The contractual requirement that the Dur-o-Wall be installed on every course of below-grade masonry block did not accord with the standard building practice in the area, and the savings to the subcontractor resulting from its omission were minimal. Even the company hired by 81 & 3 to inspect the masonry work failed to notice the omission (see id.). Nor is there any evidence supporting defendants’ contention that Edgewater deliberately overlooked the contract specifications while observing the construction of the foundation. Edgewater’s inadvertent failure to notice the omission of the Dur-o-Wall may be traced to the unusual nature of the contract specification, which was meaningless in terms of the integrity of the foundation. Thus, we conclude that the court, after weighing “the purpose to be served, the desire to be gratified, the excuse for deviation from the letter, [and] the cruelty of enforced adherence,” properly applied the doctrine of substantial performance to this case (id. at 243). With respect to the second cause of action, defendants contend that the court erred in granting judgment against Innovative and Ripper in any amount and that it further erred in granting judgment against Bella Vista for the full amount of damages awarded to Edgewater. The store was constructed pursuant to a lease agreement between Bella Vista and Wal-Mart. Prior to the closing of the construction loan and mortgage, Bella Vista assigned its interest in the lease to 81 & 3, which was formed by Bella Vista for the sole purpose of constructing the store. 81 & 3 then contracted with Edgewater for the store’s construction. Innovative is a Bella Vista affiliate that brokers leases for tenants in Bella Vista’s shopping centers. Cipolla is the vice-president of 81 & 3, president of Bella Vista and an officer of Innovative. Ripper is the president of 81 & 3 and wife of Cipolla. It was stipulated at trial that 81 & 3 received $739,152.34 subject to the trust under article 3-A of the Lien Law for the payment of the cost of the project. After trial, the court found that Ripper and Bella Vista “receivedt,] used, participated and consented to the use of construction funds . . . for purposes other than paying for the cost of the Project.” It also found that “Ripper diverted trust monies to herself and others.” The court made no findings with respect to Innovative and it did not otherwise quantify the amount of money wrongfully diverted and/or received by. Ripper and Bella Vista. Generally, corporate officers may be personally liable for trust funds that they convert to their own use (see South Carolina Steel Corp. v Miller, 170 AD2d 592, 595 [1991]). Corporate officers also may be personally liable for trust funds otherwise wrongfully diverted by their corporation, provided that they knowingly participated in that diversion by the corporation (see Atlas Bldg. Sys. v Rende, 236 AD2d 494, 495 [1997]; South Carolina Steel Corp., 170 AD2d at 595; Fleck v Perla, 40 AD2d 1069, 1070 [1972]). A company that receives wrongfully diverted trust funds, “ ‘knowing [them] to be the subject of a trust, and to have been transferred in violation of the trustee’s duty or power, takes [the funds] subject to the right of the trustee, and also of the cestui que trust, to reclaim possession thereof, or to recover for [their] conversion’ ” (Fleck, 40 AD2d at 1070). Notwithstanding those principles of law, however, the parties stipulated here in relevant part that defendants “may be liable . . . for the amount that the Court may find as due [Edgewater] in this action to the extent said Defendants or others received all or part of the said trust funds from 81 & 3 . . . and no testimony will be required of [Edgewater] or said Defendants concerning the second cause of action.” Thus, the parties stipulated out of the case any cause of action against a corporate officer, such as Ripper, based on that officer’s knowing participation in the wrongful diversion of trust funds by the corporation, and agreed that the liability of Ripper, Bella Vista and Innovative was limited to the amount of trust funds wrongfully received by them regardless whether they knew the money had been wrongfully diverted. “ ‘Parties by their stipulations may in many ways make the law for any legal proceeding to which they are parties, which not only binds them, but which the courts are bound to enforce’ ” (Joseph v New York State Teamsters Conference Pension & Retirement Fund, 71 AD2d 446, 450 [1979], quoting Pines v Beck, 300 NY 181, 187; Matter of New York, Lackawanna & W. R.R. Co., 98 NY 447, 453 [1885]). The only relevant evidence presented at trial regarding the second cause of action was the checks and check registries that were stipulated into evidence. That evidence establishes that Ripper and Bella Vista received wrongfully diverted trust funds. However, the court never made any findings with respect to the exact amount of the trust funds those defendants wrongfully received. Thus, we modify the judgment by vacating the award of damages against Ripper and Bella Vista, and we remit the matter to Supreme Court, Onondaga County, for further findings with respect to the amount of trust funds those defendants wrongfully received and to grant judgment accordingly against them. With respect to Innovative, however, the evidence establishes that the only funds it received were in payment of brokerage fees owed to it on the project. We therefore further modify the judgment by reversing that part against Innovative and dismissing the complaint against it. Present — Pine, J.E, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Paris, J.), dated December 5, 2002, which granted defendants’ application for sanctions and awarded judgment against plaintiff in the amount of $10,000. It is hereby ordered that said appeal be and the same hereby is unanimously dismissed with costs. Memorandum: We agree with defendants that this appeal must be dismissed. Plaintiffs notice of appeal refers to and attaches only Supreme Court’s order dated December 5, 2002, which imposed sanctions on plaintiff pursuant to CPLR 8303-a. Plaintiffs brief, however, addresses only the merits of the action, in which the court granted defendants’ motion for a directed verdict on the merits at the close of proof at trial. That decision was embodied in a separate order dated December 13, 2002. Because “the only issues which we may consider are limited by the notice of appeal” (Lehoczky v New York State Elec. & Gas Corp., 149 AD2d 862, 863 [1989]), we are limited to reviewing the propriety of the court’s imposition of sanctions. Because plaintiff did not brief that issue on appeal, it is deemed abandoned (see Schafer v Albro, 233 AD2d 900, 901 [1996]; Ciesinski v Town of Aurora, 202 AD2d 984 [1994]), leaving nothing for this Court to review. Present — Pine, J.P., Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Barry, J.), entered April 11, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion for summary judgment and dismissed the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs for the reasons stated at Supreme Court, Monroe County, Barry, J. Present — Pine, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Monroe County (Bergin, J.), entered July 10, 2002, which granted defendants’ motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously reversed on the law without costs, the motion is denied and the complaint is reinstated. Memorandum: Supreme Court erred in granting defendants’ motion seeking summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Plaintiff commenced this action asserting a cause of action for negligence based on injuries sustained by her daughter when she slipped and fell in a school parking lot. Although defendants supported their motion with evidence that the parking lot was routinely inspected for dangerous conditions, they submitted no evidence establishing when such an inspection was last conducted (see Mancini v Quality Mkts., 256 AD2d 1177 [1998]). Defendants thus failed to establish as a matter of law that they lacked constructive notice of the alleged dangerous condition (see Pelow v Tri-Main Dev., 303 AD2d 940, 941 [2003]), i.e., that the condition did not “exist for a sufficient length of time prior to the accident to permit defendant[s’] employees to discover and remedy it” (Gordon v American Museum of Natural History, 67 NY2d 836, 837 [1986]). The failure of defendants to meet their initial burden requires denial of the motion, regardless of the sufficiency of plaintiff’s opposing papers (see Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851, 853 [1985]). Present—Pine, J.P, Wisner, Hurlbutt, Gorski and Lawton, JJ.
Appeal from a judgment and order (one document) of Supreme Court, Niagara County (Boniello, III, J.), entered January 31, 2002, which granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the amended complaint. It is hereby ordered that the judgment and order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed without costs. Memorandum: In this action, plaintiff seeks to recover, on a quantum meruit basis, the value of legal services allegedly performed for defendant by decedent. Supreme Court properly granted defendant’s motion to dismiss the amended complaint pursuant to CPLR 4401. Plaintiff failed to establish either the services decedent allegedly performed for defendant or the reasonable value of those alleged services (see Singerman v Reyes, 240 AD2d 335, 336 [1997]; Geraldi v Melamid, 212 AD2d 575, 576 [1995]). We reject plaintiffs contention that the court erred in allowing defendant to testify with respect to his transactions with decedent. Plaintiff expressly waived the protection of the Dead Man’s Statute (CPLR 4519) concerning that testimony (cf. Matter of Wood, 52 NY2d 139, 144-145 [1981]). The court properly declined to draw an adverse inference against defendant for failing to produce certain documents where, as here, plaintiff failed to make a prima facie showing that the documents existed and were under defendant’s control (see Scaglione v Victory Mem. Hosp., 205 AD2d 520 [1994], lv denied 85 NY2d 801 [1995]). We have considered plaintiffs remaining contentions and conclude that they lack merit. Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ., Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Niagara County (Boniello, III, J.), entered December 13, 2002, which, inter alia, denied defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously affirmed with costs for reasons stated in decision at Supreme Court, Niagara County, Boniello, III, J. Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ, Green, Pine, Wisner and Gorski, JJ.
Order entered terminating suspension and reinstating petitioner to the practice of law. Present — Pine, J.E, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Order of suspension entered pursuant to 22 NYCRR 1022.20 (e). Present — Pine, J.E, Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Order of suspension entered pursuant to 22 NYCRR 1022.20 (e). Present — Pine, J.P., Hurlbutt, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Judgment unanimously affirmed. Counsel’s motion to be relieved of assignment granted (see People v Crawford, 71 AD2d 38 [1979]). (Appeal from Judgment of Monroe County Court, Maloy, J. — Attempted Burglary, 2nd Degree.) Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ, Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Judgment unanimously affirmed. Counsel’s motion to be relieved of assignment granted (see People v Crawford, 71 AD2d 38 [1979]). (Appeal from Judgment of Erie County Court, Pietruszka, J. — Attempted Criminal Possession Controlled Substance, 5th Degree.) Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ, Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Judgment unanimously affirmed. Counsel’s motion to be relieved of assignment granted (see People v Crawford, 71 AD2d 38 [1979]). (Appeal from Judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County, Tills, J. — Violation of Probation.) Present — Pigott, Jr., RJ., Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Judgment unanimously affirmed. Counsel’s motion to be relieved of assignment granted (see People v Crawford, 71 AD2d 38 [1979]). (Appeal from Judgment of Supreme Court, Erie County, Forma, J. — Attempted Criminal Possession Weapon, 3rd Degree.) Present — Pigott, Jr., PJ-, Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
Appeal from an order of Supreme Court, Onondaga County (Roy, J.), entered November 14, 2002, which, inter alia, granted the motion of plaintiffs for partial summary judgment on liability pursuant to Labor Law § 240 (1) and granted those parts of the motion of defendant-third-party plaintiff for summary judgment seeking common-law and contractual indemnification from third-party defendant. It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from be and the same hereby is unanimously modified on the law by denying that part of the motion of defendant-third-party plaintiff seeking common-law indemnification from third-party defendant and as modified the order is affirmed without costs. Memorandum: Plaintiffs commenced this action to recover damages for injuries sustained by Ronald J. Cogan (plaintiff), an employee of third-party defendant, Precision Steel Erectors, Inc. (Precision), while he was erecting a steel frame for a hunting lodge located on property owned by defendant, Madeira Associates (Madeira). In the course of the work, plaintiff was struck by a crane and fell approximately 15 to 20 feet. Supreme Court, inter alia, granted the motion of plaintiffs for partial summary judgment on liability pursuant to Labor Law § 240 (1) and denied that part of the cross motion of Precision seeking summary judgment dismissing that cause of action based on the homeowner exemption. The court also granted those parts of the motion of Madeira for summary judgment seeking common-law and contractual indemnification from Precision. Precision contends that the court erred in denying that part of its cross motion with respect to Labor Law § 240 (1) because Madeira is entitled to the homeowner exemption set forth in Labor Law § 240 (1). We reject that contention. As a threshold matter, we note that Precision may properly raise the issue (see CPLR 1008), despite the fact that Madeira, the owner of the property, never asserted the applicability of the exemption and thus has waived its rights with respect to it. As the court properly determined, however, Precision failed to meet its initial burden of establishing that the lodge project “directly relates to the residential use of the [property]” (Bartoo v Buell, 87 NY2d 362, 368 [1996]; see Lombardi v Stout, 80 NY2d 290, 297 [1992]). We agree with Precision that the court erred in granting that part of the motion of Madeira for summary judgment seeking common-law indemnification from Precision. In support thereof, Madeira offered only unsworn medical records and plaintiffs verified bill of particulars and thus failed to present the requisite competent medical evidence establishing that plaintiff sustained a grave injury within the meaning of Workers’ Compensation Law § 11 (see Fichter v Smith, 259 AD2d 1023 [1999], lv dismissed in part and denied in part 93 NY2d 994 [1999]; see also Joseph E.G. v East Irondequoit Cent. School Dist., 273 AD2d 835 [2000]). Precision’s contentions concerning contractual indemnification are raised for the first time on appeal and thus are not properly before us (see generally Killeen v Crosson, 284 AD2d 926, 927 [2001]). In any event, the court properly granted that part of the motion of Madeira for summary judgment seeking contractual indemnification from Precision (see Itri Brick & Concrete Corp. v Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 89 NY2d 786, 795 [1997], rearg denied 90 NY2d 1008 [1997]). We therefore modify the order by denying that part of the motion of Madeira seeking common-law indemnification from Precision. Present—Pigott, Jr., PJ, Green, Scudder, Kehoe and Hayes, JJ.
